rd-disab	2	0	Autism in CHARGE association may represent a neuro endocrine dysfunction	.
rd-disab	2	12	Children with cystinosis seem to have a normal intelligence but frequently show learning difficulties	.
rd-disab	0	20	Costello syndrome is a rare developmental disorder characterized by coarse face postnatal growth retardation skin and musculoskeletal anomalies cardiovascular abnormalities mental retardation and tumor predisposition	.
rd-disab	0	4	Costello syndrome is a rare developmental disorder characterized by coarse face postnatal growth retardation skin and musculoskeletal anomalies cardiovascular abnormalities mental retardation and tumor predisposition	.
rd-disab	0	11	Costello syndrome is a rare developmental disorder characterized by coarse face postnatal growth retardation skin and musculoskeletal anomalies cardiovascular abnormalities mental retardation and tumor predisposition	.
rd-disab	4	9	The classic phenotype of Friedreich ataxia is characterized by dysarthria progressive limb and trunk ataxia loss of reflexes and gait disturbance with the onset of disease before the second decade	.
rd-disab	4	4	The classic phenotype of Friedreich ataxia is characterized by dysarthria progressive limb and trunk ataxia loss of reflexes and gait disturbance with the onset of disease before the second decade	.
rd-disab	4	10	The classic phenotype of Friedreich ataxia is characterized by dysarthria progressive limb and trunk ataxia loss of reflexes and gait disturbance with the onset of disease before the second decade	.
rd-disab	4	19	The classic phenotype of Friedreich ataxia is characterized by dysarthria progressive limb and trunk ataxia loss of reflexes and gait disturbance with the onset of disease before the second decade	.
rd-disab	15	22	Mutations in the thyroid hormone TH transporter MCT8 have been identified as the cause for Allan Herndon Dudley Syndrome AHDS characterized by severe psychomotor retardation and altered TH serum levels	.
rd-disab	4	17	Six cases of the CHARGE association are described that were encountered consecutively at an institute for the deaf	.
rd-disab	8	26	We report on an autosomal recessive variant of Ehlers Danlos syndrome EDS characterized by severe muscle hypotonia at birth progressive scoliosis joint hypermobility hyperelastic skin myopathy sensorineural hearing impairment and normal pyridinoline excretion in urine	.
rd-disab	4	1	Many neurodevelopmental disorders exhibit syndromic obesity including SMS	.
rd-disab	7	1	Many neurodevelopmental disorders exhibit syndromic obesity including SMS	.
rd-disab	8	4	A comparison group of visually impaired subjects with isolated aniridia had cognitive functioning comparable to that of healthy controls	.
rd-disab	0	15	Leber congenital amaurosis caused by mutations in RPE65 and LRAT is a severe form of inherited retinal degeneration leading to blindness	.
rd-disab	0	20	Leber congenital amaurosis caused by mutations in RPE65 and LRAT is a severe form of inherited retinal degeneration leading to blindness	.
rd-disab	1	11	BACKGROUND Pendred syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive condition characterized by functional impairment of thyroid gland and sensorineural hearing loss	.
rd-disab	1	17	BACKGROUND Pendred syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive condition characterized by functional impairment of thyroid gland and sensorineural hearing loss	.
rd-disab	15	25	Mutations in the RSK2 gene RPS6KA3 on chromosome Xp22 2 have been found to cause Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS an X linked disorder characterized by psychomotor retardation characteristic facial and digital abnormalities and progressive skeletal deformations	.
rd-disab	4	12	Five other patients with Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome and early onset glaucoma or ocular anomalies associated with early onset glaucoma have been previously described suggesting that the association with Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome is not coincidental	.
rd-disab	4	12	Five other patients with Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome and early onset glaucoma or ocular anomalies associated with early onset glaucoma have been previously described suggesting that the association with Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome is not coincidental	.
rd-disab	20	9	We report on a 21 year old woman with intellectual disability autistic features severe obesity and facial dysmorphisms suggestive of Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS	.
rd-disab	20	11	We report on a 21 year old woman with intellectual disability autistic features severe obesity and facial dysmorphisms suggestive of Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS	.
rd-disab	14	12	Despite a reduction in disease burden of several vaccine preventable diseases through childhood immunization CRS continues to account for preventable severe morbidity including childhood blindness deafness heart disease and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	14	29	Despite a reduction in disease burden of several vaccine preventable diseases through childhood immunization CRS continues to account for preventable severe morbidity including childhood blindness deafness heart disease and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	14	25	Despite a reduction in disease burden of several vaccine preventable diseases through childhood immunization CRS continues to account for preventable severe morbidity including childhood blindness deafness heart disease and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	0	10	MAE prognosis vary from spontaneous remission to intractable seizures with profound mental retardation	.
rd-disab	2	30	Individuals with terminal and interstitial deletions of chromosome 1p36 have a spectrum of defects that includes eye anomalies postnatal growth deficiency structural brain anomalies seizures cognitive impairment delayed motor development behavior problems hearing loss cardiovascular malformations cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
rd-disab	2	25	Individuals with terminal and interstitial deletions of chromosome 1p36 have a spectrum of defects that includes eye anomalies postnatal growth deficiency structural brain anomalies seizures cognitive impairment delayed motor development behavior problems hearing loss cardiovascular malformations cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
rd-disab	2	32	Individuals with terminal and interstitial deletions of chromosome 1p36 have a spectrum of defects that includes eye anomalies postnatal growth deficiency structural brain anomalies seizures cognitive impairment delayed motor development behavior problems hearing loss cardiovascular malformations cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
rd-disab	2	27	Individuals with terminal and interstitial deletions of chromosome 1p36 have a spectrum of defects that includes eye anomalies postnatal growth deficiency structural brain anomalies seizures cognitive impairment delayed motor development behavior problems hearing loss cardiovascular malformations cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
rd-disab	2	18	Individuals with terminal and interstitial deletions of chromosome 1p36 have a spectrum of defects that includes eye anomalies postnatal growth deficiency structural brain anomalies seizures cognitive impairment delayed motor development behavior problems hearing loss cardiovascular malformations cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
rd-disab	3	11	Typical features of CdCs that are present in the proband include moderate intellectual disability speech and motor delay as well as dysmorphic features e g broad and high nasal root hypertelorism and coarse facies	.
rd-disab	3	14	Typical features of CdCs that are present in the proband include moderate intellectual disability speech and motor delay as well as dysmorphic features e g broad and high nasal root hypertelorism and coarse facies	.
rd-disab	9	3	The prevalence of hearing impairment was significantly higher in CH patients than in 32 age matched control subjects with no CH 2=6 3 p<0 025	.
rd-disab	24	7	Cranial nerve involvement responsible for hearing loss bilateral optic atrophy and or facial palsy was present in 14 patients but was clearly attributable to ADO II in only 6 cases 16	.
rd-disab	24	5	Cranial nerve involvement responsible for hearing loss bilateral optic atrophy and or facial palsy was present in 14 patients but was clearly attributable to ADO II in only 6 cases 16	.
rd-disab	0	20	Zellweger syndrome ZS is the most severe form of PBD and is characterized by craniofacial abnormalities severe hypotonia neonatal seizures ocular abnormalities psychomotor retardation hepatomegaly and increased levels of very long chain fatty acids VLCFA	.
rd-disab	0	22	Zellweger syndrome ZS is the most severe form of PBD and is characterized by craniofacial abnormalities severe hypotonia neonatal seizures ocular abnormalities psychomotor retardation hepatomegaly and increased levels of very long chain fatty acids VLCFA	.
rd-disab	10	1	CONCLUSIONS Intellectual disability is a consistent finding in patients with alpha mannosidosis but with extensive variation	.
rd-disab	0	18	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a neurodevelopmental disorder associated with intellectual disability sleep disturbances early onset obesity and vast behavioral deficits	.
rd-disab	0	12	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a neurodevelopmental disorder associated with intellectual disability sleep disturbances early onset obesity and vast behavioral deficits	.
rd-disab	0	6	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a neurodevelopmental disorder associated with intellectual disability sleep disturbances early onset obesity and vast behavioral deficits	.
rd-disab	0	10	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a neurodevelopmental disorder associated with intellectual disability sleep disturbances early onset obesity and vast behavioral deficits	.
rd-disab	0	19	Autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxias SCAs are a group of rare and heterogeneous neurodegenerative diseases characterized by the presence of progressive cerebellar ataxia	.
rd-disab	2	12	Children with nephropathic cystinosis NCTN have evidence of defective intellectual functions and behavioral disorders	.
rd-disab	2	8	Children with nephropathic cystinosis NCTN have evidence of defective intellectual functions and behavioral disorders	.
rd-disab	0	8	Rubinstein Taybi syndrome RSTS is one of the neurodevelopmental disorders caused by mutations of epigenetic genes	.
rd-disab	2	14	CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS Russell Silver syndrome RSS is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation accompanied by postnatal growth deficiency	.
rd-disab	0	4	α Thalassemia X linked mental retardation syndrome is a rare inherited intellectual disability disorder due to mutations in the ATRX gene	.
rd-disab	0	2	α Thalassemia X linked mental retardation syndrome is a rare inherited intellectual disability disorder due to mutations in the ATRX gene	.
rd-disab	0	10	α Thalassemia X linked mental retardation syndrome is a rare inherited intellectual disability disorder due to mutations in the ATRX gene	.
rd-disab	2	12	The typical cri du chat syndrome due to 5p15 2 deletion includes severe intellectual disability facial dysmorphisms neonatal hypotonia and pre and post natal growth retardation whereas more distal deletions in 5p15 3 lead to cat like cry and speech delay and produce the clinical picture of the atypical cri du chat syndrome with minimal or absent intellectual impairment	.
rd-disab	2	13	The typical cri du chat syndrome due to 5p15 2 deletion includes severe intellectual disability facial dysmorphisms neonatal hypotonia and pre and post natal growth retardation whereas more distal deletions in 5p15 3 lead to cat like cry and speech delay and produce the clinical picture of the atypical cri du chat syndrome with minimal or absent intellectual impairment	.
rd-disab	2	20	The typical cri du chat syndrome due to 5p15 2 deletion includes severe intellectual disability facial dysmorphisms neonatal hypotonia and pre and post natal growth retardation whereas more distal deletions in 5p15 3 lead to cat like cry and speech delay and produce the clinical picture of the atypical cri du chat syndrome with minimal or absent intellectual impairment	.
rd-disab	2	39	The typical cri du chat syndrome due to 5p15 2 deletion includes severe intellectual disability facial dysmorphisms neonatal hypotonia and pre and post natal growth retardation whereas more distal deletions in 5p15 3 lead to cat like cry and speech delay and produce the clinical picture of the atypical cri du chat syndrome with minimal or absent intellectual impairment	.
rd-disab	3	23	INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES Neurofibromatosis type 2 NF2 is an infrequent autosomal dominant disease characterised by the appearance of viii nerve schwannomas meningiomas and ocular abnormalities	.
rd-disab	0	4	Williams syndrome is a rare congenital developmental disorder characterized by a constellation of distinctive facial dysmorphisms mental retardation cardiovascular anomalies infantile hypercalcemia delayed developmental milestones dental and musculoskeletal anomalies and distinctive personality traits	.
rd-disab	0	16	Williams syndrome is a rare congenital developmental disorder characterized by a constellation of distinctive facial dysmorphisms mental retardation cardiovascular anomalies infantile hypercalcemia delayed developmental milestones dental and musculoskeletal anomalies and distinctive personality traits	.
rd-disab	0	8	Coffin Lowry syndrome is a syndromic form of mental retardation caused by mutations of the Rps6ka3 gene encoding ribosomal s6 kinase RSK 2	.
rd-disab	0	18	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is a syndromic form of X linked mental retardation characterized in male patients by psychomotor and growth retardation and various skeletal anomalies	.
rd-disab	0	11	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is a syndromic form of X linked mental retardation characterized in male patients by psychomotor and growth retardation and various skeletal anomalies	.
rd-disab	0	9	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is a syndromic form of X linked mental retardation characterized in male patients by psychomotor and growth retardation and various skeletal anomalies	.
rd-disab	2	33	When severe congenital contractural arachnodactyly is diagnosed in the newborn period parents need to be aware that long term survival is possible particularly if no significant extraskeletal complications are present and that significant neurodevelopmental delay may occur	.
rd-disab	0	3	DRS associated with intellectual disability or developmental delay is observed in several genetic diseases syndromes such as Goldenhar or Wildervanck syndrome and chromosomal anomalies such as 12q12 deletion	.
rd-disab	0	6	DRS associated with intellectual disability or developmental delay is observed in several genetic diseases syndromes such as Goldenhar or Wildervanck syndrome and chromosomal anomalies such as 12q12 deletion	.
rd-disab	2	10	CADASIL and CARASIL are hereditary small vessel diseases leading to vascular dementia	.
rd-disab	0	15	Choroideremia CHM is a rare X linked disease leading to progressive retinal degeneration resulting in blindness	.
rd-disab	0	10	Choroideremia CHM is a rare X linked disease leading to progressive retinal degeneration resulting in blindness	.
rd-disab	0	5	Rett syndrome RTT is a pervasive neurodevelopmental disorder mainly caused by mutations in the X linked MECP2 gene associated with severe intellectual disability movement disorders and autistic like behaviors	.
rd-disab	0	23	Rett syndrome RTT is a pervasive neurodevelopmental disorder mainly caused by mutations in the X linked MECP2 gene associated with severe intellectual disability movement disorders and autistic like behaviors	.
rd-disab	0	26	Rett syndrome RTT is a pervasive neurodevelopmental disorder mainly caused by mutations in the X linked MECP2 gene associated with severe intellectual disability movement disorders and autistic like behaviors	.
rd-disab	0	20	Rett syndrome RTT is a pervasive neurodevelopmental disorder mainly caused by mutations in the X linked MECP2 gene associated with severe intellectual disability movement disorders and autistic like behaviors	.
rd-disab	0	0	Frontotemporal dementia is a common type of dementia particularly in patients younger than 65 years	.
rd-disab	0	7	Frontotemporal dementia is a common type of dementia particularly in patients younger than 65 years	.
rd-disab	24	29	We describe three siblings of a consanguineous family manifesting the typical infantile onset Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease like phenotype slowly evolving into a form of complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia with mental retardation dysarthria optic atrophy and peripheral neuropathy in adulthood	.
rd-disab	24	31	We describe three siblings of a consanguineous family manifesting the typical infantile onset Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease like phenotype slowly evolving into a form of complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia with mental retardation dysarthria optic atrophy and peripheral neuropathy in adulthood	.
rd-disab	24	32	We describe three siblings of a consanguineous family manifesting the typical infantile onset Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease like phenotype slowly evolving into a form of complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia with mental retardation dysarthria optic atrophy and peripheral neuropathy in adulthood	.
rd-disab	24	24	We describe three siblings of a consanguineous family manifesting the typical infantile onset Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease like phenotype slowly evolving into a form of complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia with mental retardation dysarthria optic atrophy and peripheral neuropathy in adulthood	.
rd-disab	13	24	We describe three siblings of a consanguineous family manifesting the typical infantile onset Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease like phenotype slowly evolving into a form of complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia with mental retardation dysarthria optic atrophy and peripheral neuropathy in adulthood	.
rd-disab	0	11	Leber congenital amaurosis LCA is one of the main causes of childhood blindness	.
rd-disab	15	11	The first point mutation of mitochondrial DNA mtDNA associated with the maternally inherited blinding disorder Leber s hereditary optic neuropathy LHON was recognized in 1988	.
rd-disab	3	23	Missense mutations of HSD10 may cause neurodegeneration related to HSD10 deficiency whereas a silent mutation of HSD10 results in mental retardation choreoathetosis and abnormal behavior MRXS10	.
rd-disab	3	19	Missense mutations of HSD10 may cause neurodegeneration related to HSD10 deficiency whereas a silent mutation of HSD10 results in mental retardation choreoathetosis and abnormal behavior MRXS10	.
rd-disab	12	12	Inclusion body myopathy associated with Paget s disease of the bone and frontotemporal dementia is a rare but highly penetrant autosomal dominant progressive disorder linked to mutations in valosin containing protein VCP	.
rd-disab	23	23	Here we examined basic face perception Identity Matching face recognition Cambridge Face Memory Task and object recognition Cambridge Car Memory Task in 11 semantic dementia SD patients 8 left lateralised 3 right lateralised and 13 behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD patients compared with 11 controls	.
rd-disab	35	35	Here we examined basic face perception Identity Matching face recognition Cambridge Face Memory Task and object recognition Cambridge Car Memory Task in 11 semantic dementia SD patients 8 left lateralised 3 right lateralised and 13 behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD patients compared with 11 controls	.
rd-disab	0	13	Alport syndrome is an inherited disorder of type IV collagen with progressive nephropathy ocular abnormalities and high tone sensorineural deafness	.
rd-disab	0	16	Alport syndrome is an inherited disorder of type IV collagen with progressive nephropathy ocular abnormalities and high tone sensorineural deafness	.
rd-disab	1	23	The Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a complex and rare congenital condition that is characterized by minor craniofacial anomalies short stature sleep disturbances behavioral and neurocognitive abnormalities as well as variable multisystemic manifestations	.
rd-disab	1	21	The Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a complex and rare congenital condition that is characterized by minor craniofacial anomalies short stature sleep disturbances behavioral and neurocognitive abnormalities as well as variable multisystemic manifestations	.
rd-disab	0	10	Coffin Lowry syndrome is a semi dominant condition characterized by severe psychomotor retardation with facial hand and skeletal malformations resulting from mutations in RSK2 gene encoding for a serine threonine kinase	.
rd-disab	31	15	The previously described critical region for the speech delay may be narrowed down and microcephaly growth retardation and dysmorphic facial features can be included in the phenotypic expression of the atypical cri du chat syndrome due to 5p15 3 deletions	.
rd-disab	31	7	The previously described critical region for the speech delay may be narrowed down and microcephaly growth retardation and dysmorphic facial features can be included in the phenotypic expression of the atypical cri du chat syndrome due to 5p15 3 deletions	.
rd-disab	8	2	To evaluate hearing impairment and cochlear function in non ocular Stickler syndrome	.
rd-disab	10	2	To evaluate hearing impairment and cochlear function in non ocular Stickler syndrome	.
rd-disab	0	0	Ataxia telangiectasia is an autosomal recessive multisystem disorder characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia with onset in childhood oculocutaneous telangiectasia increased serum alpha fetoprotein immunodeficiency chromosomal instability and radiation hypersensitivity	.
rd-disab	0	10	Ataxia telangiectasia is an autosomal recessive multisystem disorder characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia with onset in childhood oculocutaneous telangiectasia increased serum alpha fetoprotein immunodeficiency chromosomal instability and radiation hypersensitivity	.
rd-disab	0	12	Huntington s disease HD is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by dyskinesia cognitive impairment and emotional disturbances presenting progressive neurodegeneration in the striatum and intracellular mutant Huntingtin mHTT aggregates in various areas of the brain	.
rd-disab	0	15	Huntington s disease HD is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by dyskinesia cognitive impairment and emotional disturbances presenting progressive neurodegeneration in the striatum and intracellular mutant Huntingtin mHTT aggregates in various areas of the brain	.
rd-disab	0	11	Huntington s disease HD is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by dyskinesia cognitive impairment and emotional disturbances presenting progressive neurodegeneration in the striatum and intracellular mutant Huntingtin mHTT aggregates in various areas of the brain	.
rd-disab	2	26	The term West syndrome WS refers to a form a subset of ISs characterised by the combination of clustered spasms and hypsarrhythmia on an EEG and delayed brain development or regression currently it is no longer required that delayed development occur before the onset of spasms	.
rd-disab	23	23	Structural imaging and cognitive changes can be identified 5 10 years before expected onset of symptoms in asymptomatic adults at risk of genetic frontotemporal dementia	.
rd-disab	4	4	The early stages of behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD are still not completely characterized	.
rd-disab	6	12	Hypomyelination is a key symptom of Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS a psychomotor retardation associated with mutations in the thyroid hormone TH transporter MCT8 monocarboxylate transporter 8	.
rd-disab	0	38	WS1 is a rare disorder characterized by the development of insulin dependent diabetes mellitus at an average age of 6 years followed by optic atrophy figure at an average age of 11 and partial central diabetes insipidus and deafness in adolescence	.
rd-disab	0	23	WS1 is a rare disorder characterized by the development of insulin dependent diabetes mellitus at an average age of 6 years followed by optic atrophy figure at an average age of 11 and partial central diabetes insipidus and deafness in adolescence	.
rd-disab	8	23	Protein energy malnutrition PEM is poorly reported in cri du chat syndrome CDCS OMIM #123450 a genetic disease that causes developmental delay and global growth retardation	.
rd-disab	8	20	Protein energy malnutrition PEM is poorly reported in cri du chat syndrome CDCS OMIM #123450 a genetic disease that causes developmental delay and global growth retardation	.
rd-disab	4	27	Homocystinuria HCU due to deficiency of cystathionine beta synthetase is associated with increased plasma levels of homocysteine and methionine and is characterized by developmental delay intellectual impairment ocular defects thromboembolism and skeletal abnormalities	.
rd-disab	4	23	Homocystinuria HCU due to deficiency of cystathionine beta synthetase is associated with increased plasma levels of homocysteine and methionine and is characterized by developmental delay intellectual impairment ocular defects thromboembolism and skeletal abnormalities	.
rd-disab	4	25	Homocystinuria HCU due to deficiency of cystathionine beta synthetase is associated with increased plasma levels of homocysteine and methionine and is characterized by developmental delay intellectual impairment ocular defects thromboembolism and skeletal abnormalities	.
rd-disab	0	15	Alport syndrome is an inherited disease characterized by hematuria progressive renal failure hearing loss and ocular abnormalities	.
rd-disab	0	12	Alport syndrome is an inherited disease characterized by hematuria progressive renal failure hearing loss and ocular abnormalities	.
rd-disab	1	3	In TRPS II intellectual disability is present in most but not all and again typically mild to moderate in severity	.
rd-disab	0	10	Smith Magenis syndrome is characterized by multiple congenital anomalies and mental retardation caused by the heterozygous deletion of chromosomal region 17p11 2	.
rd-disab	1	15	The Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS is a rare genetic condition presenting with severe mental disability growth retardation muscular hypotonia seizures craniofacial abnormalities and defects in the cardiovascular genitourinary and digestive apparata	.
rd-disab	1	12	The Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS is a rare genetic condition presenting with severe mental disability growth retardation muscular hypotonia seizures craniofacial abnormalities and defects in the cardiovascular genitourinary and digestive apparata	.
rd-disab	4	13	Patients with CMTX5 and Arts syndrome have peripheral neuropathy including hearing impairment and optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	4	10	Patients with CMTX5 and Arts syndrome have peripheral neuropathy including hearing impairment and optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	2	13	Patients with CMTX5 and Arts syndrome have peripheral neuropathy including hearing impairment and optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	2	10	Patients with CMTX5 and Arts syndrome have peripheral neuropathy including hearing impairment and optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	0	12	Fragile X syndrome FXS is the most frequent inherited form of human mental retardation	.
rd-disab	2	47	Within the WAGR group BDNF+ subjects n=15 compared with BDNF intact + + subjects n=13 had lower adaptive behaviour p= 02 reduced cognitive functioning p= 04 higher levels of reported historical p= 02 and current p= 02 social impairment and higher percentage meeting cut off score for autism p= 047 on Autism Diagnostic Interview Revised	.
rd-disab	2	16	Within the WAGR group BDNF+ subjects n=15 compared with BDNF intact + + subjects n=13 had lower adaptive behaviour p= 02 reduced cognitive functioning p= 04 higher levels of reported historical p= 02 and current p= 02 social impairment and higher percentage meeting cut off score for autism p= 047 on Autism Diagnostic Interview Revised	.
rd-disab	2	21	Within the WAGR group BDNF+ subjects n=15 compared with BDNF intact + + subjects n=13 had lower adaptive behaviour p= 02 reduced cognitive functioning p= 04 higher levels of reported historical p= 02 and current p= 02 social impairment and higher percentage meeting cut off score for autism p= 047 on Autism Diagnostic Interview Revised	.
rd-disab	2	37	Within the WAGR group BDNF+ subjects n=15 compared with BDNF intact + + subjects n=13 had lower adaptive behaviour p= 02 reduced cognitive functioning p= 04 higher levels of reported historical p= 02 and current p= 02 social impairment and higher percentage meeting cut off score for autism p= 047 on Autism Diagnostic Interview Revised	.
rd-disab	11	22	We report the case of two Egyptian sibling patients suspected of Canavan disease CD showing clinical deterioration white matter degeneration megalencephaly and severe intellectual impairment	.
rd-disab	0	17	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS OMIM 303600 is an X linked inherited disorder characterised in male patients by growth and psychomotor retardation hypotonia and progressive skeletal changes	.
rd-disab	0	9	Wolfram syndrome also named DIDMOAD diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy and deafness is an inherited association of juvenile onset diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy as key diagnostic criteria	.
rd-disab	0	9	Wolfram syndrome also named DIDMOAD diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy and deafness is an inherited association of juvenile onset diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy as key diagnostic criteria	.
rd-disab	0	12	Wolfram syndrome also named DIDMOAD diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy and deafness is an inherited association of juvenile onset diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy as key diagnostic criteria	.
rd-disab	0	17	CHARGE association is the sporadic non random concurrence of Coloboma of the eye Heart anomalies choanal Atresia Retardation of growth and development Genitourinary anomalies Ear anomalies and deafness CHARGE association	.
rd-disab	0	27	CHARGE association is the sporadic non random concurrence of Coloboma of the eye Heart anomalies choanal Atresia Retardation of growth and development Genitourinary anomalies Ear anomalies and deafness CHARGE association	.
rd-disab	0	27	CHARGE association is the sporadic non random concurrence of Coloboma of the eye Heart anomalies choanal Atresia Retardation of growth and development Genitourinary anomalies Ear anomalies and deafness CHARGE association	.
rd-disab	0	17	CHARGE association is the sporadic non random concurrence of Coloboma of the eye Heart anomalies choanal Atresia Retardation of growth and development Genitourinary anomalies Ear anomalies and deafness CHARGE association	.
rd-disab	2	13	Untreated profound biotinidase deficiency results in a wide range of clinical features including optic atrophy cutaneous abnormalities hearing loss and developmental delay	.
rd-disab	2	17	Untreated profound biotinidase deficiency results in a wide range of clinical features including optic atrophy cutaneous abnormalities hearing loss and developmental delay	.
rd-disab	2	20	Untreated profound biotinidase deficiency results in a wide range of clinical features including optic atrophy cutaneous abnormalities hearing loss and developmental delay	.
rd-disab	27	29	Mutations in the gene encoding neural cell adhesion molecule L1 L1CAM are involved in X linked hydrocephalus HSAS hydrocephalus due to stenosis of the aqueduct of Sylvius MASA syndrome mental retardation aphasia shuffling gait and adducted thumbs and spastic paraplegia type 1	.
rd-disab	27	31	Mutations in the gene encoding neural cell adhesion molecule L1 L1CAM are involved in X linked hydrocephalus HSAS hydrocephalus due to stenosis of the aqueduct of Sylvius MASA syndrome mental retardation aphasia shuffling gait and adducted thumbs and spastic paraplegia type 1	.
rd-disab	6	22	The major clinical features presented by MSUD patients include ketoacidosis failure to thrive poor feeding apnea ataxia seizures coma psychomotor delay and mental retardation however the pathophysiology of this disease is poorly understood	.
rd-disab	6	19	The major clinical features presented by MSUD patients include ketoacidosis failure to thrive poor feeding apnea ataxia seizures coma psychomotor delay and mental retardation however the pathophysiology of this disease is poorly understood	.
rd-disab	6	16	The major clinical features presented by MSUD patients include ketoacidosis failure to thrive poor feeding apnea ataxia seizures coma psychomotor delay and mental retardation however the pathophysiology of this disease is poorly understood	.
rd-disab	0	7	Leber congenital amaurosis LCA is the most severe retinal dystrophy causing blindness or severe visual impairment before the age of 1 year	.
rd-disab	0	7	Leber congenital amaurosis LCA is the most severe retinal dystrophy causing blindness or severe visual impairment before the age of 1 year	.
rd-disab	0	11	Leber congenital amaurosis LCA is the most severe retinal dystrophy causing blindness or severe visual impairment before the age of 1 year	.
rd-disab	8	7	Leber congenital amaurosis LCA is the most severe retinal dystrophy causing blindness or severe visual impairment before the age of 1 year	.
rd-disab	8	11	Leber congenital amaurosis LCA is the most severe retinal dystrophy causing blindness or severe visual impairment before the age of 1 year	.
rd-disab	7	22	Despite epidemiologic data showing that patients with FTD may have experienced previous psychiatric disorders and that patients with psychotic disorders may develop dementia more often than expected in the nonaffected population the overlap between these two conditions has been underestimated	.
rd-disab	7	12	Despite epidemiologic data showing that patients with FTD may have experienced previous psychiatric disorders and that patients with psychotic disorders may develop dementia more often than expected in the nonaffected population the overlap between these two conditions has been underestimated	.
rd-disab	0	18	Propionic acidemia PA is an organic acidemia which has a broad range of neurological complications including developmental delay intellectual disability structural abnormalities metabolic stroke like episodes seizures optic neuropathy and cranial nerve abnormalities	.
rd-disab	0	16	Propionic acidemia PA is an organic acidemia which has a broad range of neurological complications including developmental delay intellectual disability structural abnormalities metabolic stroke like episodes seizures optic neuropathy and cranial nerve abnormalities	.
rd-disab	22	22	However the patient still suffered many complications after the severe metabolic insult with hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy cerebral atrophy global developmental delay and cortical visual impairment	.
rd-disab	1	6	The Pendred syndrome associated with the hearing impairment is characterized by a prelingual bilateral sever to profound SNHL goiter and iodine organification defect	.
rd-disab	0	20	Muckle Wells syndrome MWS is an autoinflammatory disease characterized by excessive interleukin 1 IL 1 release resulting in recurrent fevers sensorineural hearing loss and amyloidosis	.
rd-disab	6	9	In so called RASopathies e g neurofibromatosis 1 NF1 neurocognitive impairments are frequent and are affected by components of the RAS pathway which lead to impairments in synaptic plasticity	.
rd-disab	0	21	Huntington s disease HD is a neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterised by the presence of choreic abnormal movements behavioural or psychiatric disturbances and dementia	.
rd-disab	0	18	Huntington s disease HD is a neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterised by the presence of choreic abnormal movements behavioural or psychiatric disturbances and dementia	.
rd-disab	0	26	Huntington s disease HD is a neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system characterised by the presence of choreic abnormal movements behavioural or psychiatric disturbances and dementia	.
rd-disab	0	4	Aicardi syndrome is a congenital neurodevelopmental disorder associated with significant cognitive and motor impairment	.
rd-disab	0	10	Aicardi syndrome is a congenital neurodevelopmental disorder associated with significant cognitive and motor impairment	.
rd-disab	28	0	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive inherited neuro and cardio degenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia sensory loss skeletal deformities and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy	.
rd-disab	27	0	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive inherited neuro and cardio degenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia sensory loss skeletal deformities and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy	.
rd-disab	0	22	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive inherited neuro and cardio degenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia sensory loss skeletal deformities and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy	.
rd-disab	0	0	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive inherited neuro and cardio degenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia sensory loss skeletal deformities and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy	.
rd-disab	0	14	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive inherited neuro and cardio degenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia sensory loss skeletal deformities and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy	.
rd-disab	0	20	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive inherited neuro and cardio degenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia sensory loss skeletal deformities and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy	.
rd-disab	0	9	SMS is characterized by subtle facial dysmorphology short stature sleep disturbances and neurobehavioral abnormalities	.
rd-disab	8	15	Prominent orofacial involvement was a consistent feature in GA1 patients with movement disorders resulting in speech disorders with features of combined hyperkinetic dysarthria and speech apraxia	.
rd-disab	8	11	Prominent orofacial involvement was a consistent feature in GA1 patients with movement disorders resulting in speech disorders with features of combined hyperkinetic dysarthria and speech apraxia	.
rd-disab	8	21	Prominent orofacial involvement was a consistent feature in GA1 patients with movement disorders resulting in speech disorders with features of combined hyperkinetic dysarthria and speech apraxia	.
rd-disab	8	15	Prominent orofacial involvement was a consistent feature in GA1 patients with movement disorders resulting in speech disorders with features of combined hyperkinetic dysarthria and speech apraxia	.
rd-disab	1	17	Childhood narcolepsy with cataplexy represents a risk factor for subtle and heterogeneous cognitive impairments potentially resulting in academic failure despite the normal IQ	.
rd-disab	22	22	The present study demonstrates that both abnormal electrocardiograms and elevated serum cardiac troponin I values may be common baseline characteristics seen in Friedreich ataxia subjects	.
rd-disab	6	15	Medical problems commonly caused by terminal deletions of 1p36 include developmental delay intellectual disability seizures vision problems hearing loss short stature distinctive facial features brain anomalies orofacial clefting congenital heart defects cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
rd-disab	6	12	Medical problems commonly caused by terminal deletions of 1p36 include developmental delay intellectual disability seizures vision problems hearing loss short stature distinctive facial features brain anomalies orofacial clefting congenital heart defects cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
rd-disab	6	17	Medical problems commonly caused by terminal deletions of 1p36 include developmental delay intellectual disability seizures vision problems hearing loss short stature distinctive facial features brain anomalies orofacial clefting congenital heart defects cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
rd-disab	6	10	Medical problems commonly caused by terminal deletions of 1p36 include developmental delay intellectual disability seizures vision problems hearing loss short stature distinctive facial features brain anomalies orofacial clefting congenital heart defects cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
rd-disab	9	17	PURPOSE To describe a 55 year old male with Erdheim Chester disease with bilateral orbital infiltration and visual loss who was successfully treated with interferon alpha	.
rd-disab	0	21	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a genetic disorder characterized by the association of facial dysmorphism oral speech delay as well as behavioral and sleep wake circadian rhythm disorders	.
rd-disab	0	15	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a genetic disorder characterized by the association of facial dysmorphism oral speech delay as well as behavioral and sleep wake circadian rhythm disorders	.
rd-disab	0	10	Traumatic brain injury TBI is a major risk factor for dementia	.
rd-disab	17	18	Our findings suggest that the MDS PDD short screening test may be useful for the diagnosis of MSA dementia	.
rd-disab	56	54	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
rd-disab	56	54	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
rd-disab	32	27	Importantly deregulation of PHF6 function in neuronal migration triggers the formation of white matter heterotopias that harbor neuronal hyperexcitability which may be relevant to the pathogenesis of intellectual disability and seizures in BFLS	.
rd-disab	0	10	Fragile X syndrome is the leading single gene cause of intellectual disabilities	.
rd-disab	14	10	Subsequent cytogenetic analysis in her elder brother who presented with learning difficulties showed partial trisomy 18p and the maternal karyotype is 46 XX 15 18 p11 2 p11 2	.
rd-disab	15	15	In contrast social and emotional disturbances are the major disabilities and targets for rehabilitation in behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD an incompletely understood non Alzheimer dementia	.
rd-disab	15	2	In contrast social and emotional disturbances are the major disabilities and targets for rehabilitation in behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD an incompletely understood non Alzheimer dementia	.
rd-disab	15	23	In contrast social and emotional disturbances are the major disabilities and targets for rehabilitation in behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD an incompletely understood non Alzheimer dementia	.
rd-disab	0	9	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is a rare form of X linked mental retardation caused by mutations of the RSK2 gene associated with cognitive impairment and skeletal malformations	.
rd-disab	0	22	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is a rare form of X linked mental retardation caused by mutations of the RSK2 gene associated with cognitive impairment and skeletal malformations	.
rd-disab	0	12	Lowe syndrome a multisystem disease characterized by renal tubulopathy congenital cataracts and mental retardation is associated with mutations in the gene OCRL1 which encodes a phosphatidylinositol 4 5 bisphosphate PIP2 5 phosphatase	.
rd-disab	2	21	Research on triple X syndrome may yield more insight into brain and behaviour relations developmental psychopathology auditory processing disorders EEG disorders personality and psychotic disorders etc	.
rd-disab	2	16	Research on triple X syndrome may yield more insight into brain and behaviour relations developmental psychopathology auditory processing disorders EEG disorders personality and psychotic disorders etc	.
rd-disab	35	12	RESULTS Delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia had less frequently dysarthria abolished tendon reflexes extensor plantar reflexes weakness amyotrophy ganglionopathy cerebellar atrophy scoliosis and cardiomyopathy than typical onset Friedreich s ataxia along with less severe functional disability and shorter GAA expansion on the smaller allele P < 0 001	.
rd-disab	35	1	RESULTS Delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia had less frequently dysarthria abolished tendon reflexes extensor plantar reflexes weakness amyotrophy ganglionopathy cerebellar atrophy scoliosis and cardiomyopathy than typical onset Friedreich s ataxia along with less severe functional disability and shorter GAA expansion on the smaller allele P < 0 001	.
rd-disab	0	18	Sjögren Larsson syndrome is an autosomal recessive hereditary disorder involving congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or tetraplegia	.
rd-disab	0	15	Sjögren Larsson syndrome is an autosomal recessive hereditary disorder involving congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or tetraplegia	.
rd-disab	0	12	Sjögren Larsson syndrome is an autosomal recessive hereditary disorder involving congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or tetraplegia	.
rd-disab	0	42	Costello syndrome is a distinctive multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by loose soft skin with deep palmar and plantar creases loose joints distinctive coarse facial features skeletal abnormalities cardiac abnormalities cardiovascular malformation CVM hypertrophic cardiomyopathy tachycardia predisposition to malignancy developmental delays and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	0	39	Costello syndrome is a distinctive multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by loose soft skin with deep palmar and plantar creases loose joints distinctive coarse facial features skeletal abnormalities cardiac abnormalities cardiovascular malformation CVM hypertrophic cardiomyopathy tachycardia predisposition to malignancy developmental delays and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	1	17	The spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 SCA7 is associated with pigmentary macular dystrophy and retinal degeneration leading to blindness caused by a CAG polyglutamine polyGln expansion in the coding region of the SCA7 gene protein	.
rd-disab	1	1	The spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 SCA7 is associated with pigmentary macular dystrophy and retinal degeneration leading to blindness caused by a CAG polyglutamine polyGln expansion in the coding region of the SCA7 gene protein	.
rd-disab	31	31	Further longitudinal studies will allow for a better understanding of the cause and prognostic implications of elevated levels as well as the clinical utility of serum cardiac troponin I testing in Friedreich ataxia	.
rd-disab	6	10	In general the cognitive profile in CS is characterized by intellectual disability ranging from mild to severe impairment	.
rd-disab	19	19	Results provide evidence for the utility of metacognitive measures as a means of distinguishing between Alzheimer s disease and frontotemporal dementia	.
rd-disab	0	12	Mowat Wilson syndrome MWS is a developmental disorder presenting with mental retardation delayed motor development and a wide spectrum of clinical features	.
rd-disab	0	10	Mowat Wilson syndrome MWS is a developmental disorder presenting with mental retardation delayed motor development and a wide spectrum of clinical features	.
rd-disab	0	6	Mowat Wilson syndrome MWS is a developmental disorder presenting with mental retardation delayed motor development and a wide spectrum of clinical features	.
rd-disab	4	11	This case illustrates that frontotemporal dementia related cognitive impairment may precede behavioral changes in VCP disease as compared with predominance of behavioral impairment reported in previous studies	.
rd-disab	4	4	This case illustrates that frontotemporal dementia related cognitive impairment may precede behavioral changes in VCP disease as compared with predominance of behavioral impairment reported in previous studies	.
rd-disab	4	7	This case illustrates that frontotemporal dementia related cognitive impairment may precede behavioral changes in VCP disease as compared with predominance of behavioral impairment reported in previous studies	.
rd-disab	0	11	Choroideremia is a rare hereditary disease with characteristic fundus that causes night blindness and peripheral visual field loss	.
rd-disab	0	14	Choroideremia is a rare hereditary disease with characteristic fundus that causes night blindness and peripheral visual field loss	.
rd-disab	0	9	Fragile X syndrome is the most common type of inherited mental retardation caused by the absence of FMRP protein a RNA binding protein implicated in the regulation of mRNA translation and transport leading to protein synthesis	.
rd-disab	2	13	PURPOSE The 1p36 deletion syndrome is a microdeletion syndrome characterized by developmental delays intellectual disability craniofacial dysmorphism and other congenital anomalies	.
rd-disab	2	11	PURPOSE The 1p36 deletion syndrome is a microdeletion syndrome characterized by developmental delays intellectual disability craniofacial dysmorphism and other congenital anomalies	.
rd-disab	12	23	WDR45 is an X linked gene associated with a dominant form of Neurodegeneration with Brain Iron Accumulation NBIA manifested by progressive disabilities dystonia cognitive decline spastic paraplegia neuropsychiatric abnormalities and iron deposition in the basal ganglia on brain imaging	.
rd-disab	12	25	WDR45 is an X linked gene associated with a dominant form of Neurodegeneration with Brain Iron Accumulation NBIA manifested by progressive disabilities dystonia cognitive decline spastic paraplegia neuropsychiatric abnormalities and iron deposition in the basal ganglia on brain imaging	.
rd-disab	0	37	Potocki Lupski syndrome PTLS or duplication 17p11 2 syndrome is a newly characterized condition causing a variety of health problems with variable severity including failure to thrive in infancy and childhood hypotonia structural heart anomalies cognitive impairments speech and learning difficulties and autism	.
rd-disab	0	42	Potocki Lupski syndrome PTLS or duplication 17p11 2 syndrome is a newly characterized condition causing a variety of health problems with variable severity including failure to thrive in infancy and childhood hypotonia structural heart anomalies cognitive impairments speech and learning difficulties and autism	.
rd-disab	0	35	Potocki Lupski syndrome PTLS or duplication 17p11 2 syndrome is a newly characterized condition causing a variety of health problems with variable severity including failure to thrive in infancy and childhood hypotonia structural heart anomalies cognitive impairments speech and learning difficulties and autism	.
rd-disab	1	10	The Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is a syndromic form of intellectual disability caused by loss of function of the RSK2 serine threonine kinase encoded by the rsk2 gene	.
rd-disab	0	5	Harlequin ichthyosis HI is a severe autosomal recessive developmental disorder of the skin that is frequently but not always fatal in the first few days of life	.
rd-disab	1	25	BACKGROUND Borjeson Forssman Lehmann syndrome BFLS is an X linked recessive intellectual disability ID disorder caused by mutations in the PHF6 gene and characterised by variable cognitive impairment a distinct facial gestalt obesity and hypogonadism	.
rd-disab	1	11	BACKGROUND Borjeson Forssman Lehmann syndrome BFLS is an X linked recessive intellectual disability ID disorder caused by mutations in the PHF6 gene and characterised by variable cognitive impairment a distinct facial gestalt obesity and hypogonadism	.
rd-disab	23	11	On the other hand the patient s clinical manifestations also including visual problems and moderate mental retardation are those typically observed in the 1p36 deletion syndrome	.
rd-disab	23	14	On the other hand the patient s clinical manifestations also including visual problems and moderate mental retardation are those typically observed in the 1p36 deletion syndrome	.
rd-disab	0	25	Argininosuccinate lyase deficiency is a urea cycle disorder which can present in the neonatal period with hyperammonemic encephalopathy or later in childhood with episodic vomiting growth and developmental delay	.
rd-disab	1	10	INTRODUCTION Costello syndrome CS is a multisystemic disorder characterized by postnatal reduced growth facial dysmorphism cardiac defects cognitive impairment skin and musculo skeletal anomalies and predisposition to certain cancers	.
rd-disab	1	17	INTRODUCTION Costello syndrome CS is a multisystemic disorder characterized by postnatal reduced growth facial dysmorphism cardiac defects cognitive impairment skin and musculo skeletal anomalies and predisposition to certain cancers	.
rd-disab	25	17	BACKGROUND Submicroscopic deletions in 14q12 spanning FOXG1 or intragenic mutations have been reported in patients with a developmental disorder described as a congenital variant of Rett syndrome	.
rd-disab	8	22	This report presents a sporadic case of the Rieger syndrome the findings in which include the characteristic ocular anomalies shortness of stature mental retardation absent dental defects and a peculiar heretofore unobserved myopathy	.
rd-disab	8	17	This report presents a sporadic case of the Rieger syndrome the findings in which include the characteristic ocular anomalies shortness of stature mental retardation absent dental defects and a peculiar heretofore unobserved myopathy	.
rd-disab	1	20	BACKGROUND Cerebro oculo facio skeletal COFS syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that includes microcephaly severe mental retardation and multiple congenital anomalies	.
rd-disab	1	16	BACKGROUND Cerebro oculo facio skeletal COFS syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder that includes microcephaly severe mental retardation and multiple congenital anomalies	.
rd-disab	4	34	The juvenile type of dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy like Huntingtons disease is most commonly inherited via paternal transmission of the gene and most frequently presents with early onset progressive myoclonus epilepsy with mental retardation and ataxia	.
rd-disab	4	31	The juvenile type of dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy like Huntingtons disease is most commonly inherited via paternal transmission of the gene and most frequently presents with early onset progressive myoclonus epilepsy with mental retardation and ataxia	.
rd-disab	8	31	The juvenile type of dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy like Huntingtons disease is most commonly inherited via paternal transmission of the gene and most frequently presents with early onset progressive myoclonus epilepsy with mental retardation and ataxia	.
rd-disab	8	34	The juvenile type of dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy like Huntingtons disease is most commonly inherited via paternal transmission of the gene and most frequently presents with early onset progressive myoclonus epilepsy with mental retardation and ataxia	.
rd-disab	3	8	Clinical findings in alpha mannosidosis include skeletal malformations intellectual disabilities and hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	3	11	Clinical findings in alpha mannosidosis include skeletal malformations intellectual disabilities and hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	0	14	Pendred syndrome caused by mutation of SLC26A4 is one of the common causes of recessive syndromic profound HL	.
rd-disab	19	19	OBJECTIVES The purpose of this integrative review is to 1 identify the characteristics of family caregivers of patients with frontotemporal dementia 2 explore the impact of providing care on family caregivers health and well being and 3 identify coping strategies used by family caregivers	.
rd-disab	0	19	Branchio oculo facial syndrome BOFS OMIM# 113620 is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterised by branchial cleft sinus defects ocular anomalies and facial dysmorphisms including lip or palate cleft or pseudocleft and is associated with mutations in the TFAP2A gene	.
rd-disab	11	2	Headache and visual disturbances including loss of vision are characteristic of GCA	.
rd-disab	11	5	Headache and visual disturbances including loss of vision are characteristic of GCA	.
rd-disab	0	22	Glucose transporter 1 GLUT1 deficiency syndrome GLUT1DS was initially described in the early 90s as a sporadic clinical condition characterized by seizures motor and intellectual impairment with variable clinical presentation and without a known genetic cause	.
rd-disab	4	22	The adult form of CHS has a milder course no lymphohistiocytic infiltration and is characterized by neurological manifestations such as polyneuropathy parkinsonism dementia and ataxia	.
rd-disab	4	24	The adult form of CHS has a milder course no lymphohistiocytic infiltration and is characterized by neurological manifestations such as polyneuropathy parkinsonism dementia and ataxia	.
rd-disab	9	24	We report on a patient carrying an isolated complete trisomy 18p translocated to the short arm of chromosome 14 and presenting with facial dysmorphism mild intellectual disability and non obstructive azoospermia	.
rd-disab	0	10	Shprintzen Goldberg syndrome SGS is characterized by severe marfanoid habitus intellectual disability camptodactyly typical facial dysmorphism and craniosynostosis	.
rd-disab	0	10	Alport syndrome is often associated with sensorineural hearing loss and ocular abnormalities and patients suffering from typical Alport syndrome usually develop end stage renal disease during adolescence or young adulthood	.
rd-disab	0	6	Alport syndrome is often associated with sensorineural hearing loss and ocular abnormalities and patients suffering from typical Alport syndrome usually develop end stage renal disease during adolescence or young adulthood	.
rd-disab	5	5	This gene previously associated with hereditary spastic paraplegia encodes myelin associated glycoprotein which is involved in myelin maintenance and glia axon interaction	.
rd-disab	0	15	Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS an X linked condition is characterized by severe intellectual disability dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia in combination with altered TH levels in particular high serum T3 levels	.
rd-disab	0	21	Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS an X linked condition is characterized by severe intellectual disability dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia in combination with altered TH levels in particular high serum T3 levels	.
rd-disab	0	16	Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS an X linked condition is characterized by severe intellectual disability dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia in combination with altered TH levels in particular high serum T3 levels	.
rd-disab	0	12	Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS an X linked condition is characterized by severe intellectual disability dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia in combination with altered TH levels in particular high serum T3 levels	.
rd-disab	7	7	Various underlying neuropathological entities lead to the frontotemporal dementia clinical phenotype all of which are characterised by the selective degeneration of the frontal and temporal cortices	.
rd-disab	0	7	Monosomy 1p36 is associated with mental retardation developmental delay hearing impairment seizures growth impairment hypotonia and heart defects	.
rd-disab	0	5	Monosomy 1p36 is associated with mental retardation developmental delay hearing impairment seizures growth impairment hypotonia and heart defects	.
rd-disab	0	12	Monosomy 1p36 is associated with mental retardation developmental delay hearing impairment seizures growth impairment hypotonia and heart defects	.
rd-disab	0	9	Monosomy 1p36 is associated with mental retardation developmental delay hearing impairment seizures growth impairment hypotonia and heart defects	.
rd-disab	0	15	Wolfram syndrome WFS is a rare diffuse neurodegenerative disorder characterized by diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy deafness and a wide variety of central nervous system abnormalities	.
rd-disab	0	17	Wolfram syndrome WFS is a rare diffuse neurodegenerative disorder characterized by diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy deafness and a wide variety of central nervous system abnormalities	.
rd-disab	20	41	To determine whether these phenotypes are recapitulated in humans we generated induced pluripotent stem iPS cell lines from patients with Costello syndrome CS a developmental disorder caused by abnormal Ras signaling and characterized by neurodevelopmental abnormalities such as cognitive impairment and autism	.
rd-disab	20	38	To determine whether these phenotypes are recapitulated in humans we generated induced pluripotent stem iPS cell lines from patients with Costello syndrome CS a developmental disorder caused by abnormal Ras signaling and characterized by neurodevelopmental abnormalities such as cognitive impairment and autism	.
rd-disab	5	5	Family caregivers of patients with frontotemporal dementia identify behavioral disturbances as most troubling	.
rd-disab	0	9	Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a rare disorder with resultant bilateral sensorineural hearing loss unreported in adults	.
rd-disab	0	10	Cockayne syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive condition characterized by growth failure and multisystem progressive degeneration	.
rd-disab	1	10	The Usher syndrome USH is the most prevalent cause of inherited deaf blindness	.
rd-disab	15	9	OBJECTIVES To examine the risk of intellectual disability and subclinical impairments in cognitive ability in Darier disease	.
rd-disab	15	6	OBJECTIVES To examine the risk of intellectual disability and subclinical impairments in cognitive ability in Darier disease	.
rd-disab	41	41	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
rd-disab	26	26	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
rd-disab	1	26	CONCLUSION CAPS is a rare but treatable condition that may be encountered by neurologists in adult clinical practice since it can present with headache myalgia papilledema sensorineural deafness and aseptic meningitis	.
rd-disab	5	9	In this reported case of Refsum s disease despite hearing loss and absence of response in ABR robust otoacoustic emissions were measured	.
rd-disab	0	18	Cornelia de Lange syndrome CdLS is a developmental disorder characterized by limb reduction defects characteristic facial features and impaired cognitive development	.
rd-disab	0	7	Cornelia de Lange syndrome CdLS is a developmental disorder characterized by limb reduction defects characteristic facial features and impaired cognitive development	.
rd-disab	23	5	Particularly schizophrenic psychosis attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD intellectual impairment and learning disabilities seizures and motoric abnormalities have been identified in patients with 22q11DS	.
rd-disab	23	8	Particularly schizophrenic psychosis attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD intellectual impairment and learning disabilities seizures and motoric abnormalities have been identified in patients with 22q11DS	.
rd-disab	23	15	Particularly schizophrenic psychosis attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD intellectual impairment and learning disabilities seizures and motoric abnormalities have been identified in patients with 22q11DS	.
rd-disab	23	3	Particularly schizophrenic psychosis attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD intellectual impairment and learning disabilities seizures and motoric abnormalities have been identified in patients with 22q11DS	.
rd-disab	23	11	Particularly schizophrenic psychosis attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD intellectual impairment and learning disabilities seizures and motoric abnormalities have been identified in patients with 22q11DS	.
rd-disab	0	16	Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS represents a complex developmental disorder characterized by craniofacial dysmorphism short stature hypotonia psychomotor retardation and seizures caused by a terminal deletion of the short arm of chromosome 4	.
rd-disab	0	6	Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS represents a complex developmental disorder characterized by craniofacial dysmorphism short stature hypotonia psychomotor retardation and seizures caused by a terminal deletion of the short arm of chromosome 4	.
rd-disab	2	9	Patients with MERRF develop myoclonus epileptic seizures cerebellar ataxia dementia sensorineural hearing disturbance optic atrophy muscular wasting and foot deformities at the advanced stage	.
rd-disab	2	7	Patients with MERRF develop myoclonus epileptic seizures cerebellar ataxia dementia sensorineural hearing disturbance optic atrophy muscular wasting and foot deformities at the advanced stage	.
rd-disab	2	13	Patients with MERRF develop myoclonus epileptic seizures cerebellar ataxia dementia sensorineural hearing disturbance optic atrophy muscular wasting and foot deformities at the advanced stage	.
rd-disab	2	10	Patients with MERRF develop myoclonus epileptic seizures cerebellar ataxia dementia sensorineural hearing disturbance optic atrophy muscular wasting and foot deformities at the advanced stage	.
rd-disab	0	21	Costello syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome caused by heterozygous germline HRAS mutations which is characterized by intellectual disability growth retardation distinctive facies loose skin cardiomyopathy and a preposition to malignancies	.
rd-disab	0	19	Costello syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome caused by heterozygous germline HRAS mutations which is characterized by intellectual disability growth retardation distinctive facies loose skin cardiomyopathy and a preposition to malignancies	.
rd-disab	0	18	Sjögren Larsson syndrome SLS is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by ichthyosis spastic di or tetraplegia and mental retardation due a defect of the fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase FALDH related to mutations in the ALDH3A2 gene	.
rd-disab	0	13	Sjögren Larsson syndrome SLS is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by ichthyosis spastic di or tetraplegia and mental retardation due a defect of the fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase FALDH related to mutations in the ALDH3A2 gene	.
rd-disab	23	4	The differential diagnosis of developmental delays and growth retardation in early childhood includes the allelic lysosomal sialic acid storage disorders Salla disease and infantile free sialic acid storage disease ISSD	.
rd-disab	23	7	The differential diagnosis of developmental delays and growth retardation in early childhood includes the allelic lysosomal sialic acid storage disorders Salla disease and infantile free sialic acid storage disease ISSD	.
rd-disab	20	7	The differential diagnosis of developmental delays and growth retardation in early childhood includes the allelic lysosomal sialic acid storage disorders Salla disease and infantile free sialic acid storage disease ISSD	.
rd-disab	20	4	The differential diagnosis of developmental delays and growth retardation in early childhood includes the allelic lysosomal sialic acid storage disorders Salla disease and infantile free sialic acid storage disease ISSD	.
rd-disab	21	35	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
rd-disab	21	28	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
rd-disab	21	13	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
rd-disab	0	28	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
rd-disab	0	35	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
rd-disab	0	13	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
rd-disab	11	8	CONCLUSION Stapedial fixation can be the cause of hearing impairment in Stickler syndrome type I COL2A1	.
rd-disab	9	0	Bilateral sensorineural hearing loss is a characteristic feature of Alport syndrome which is always linked to renal manifestations so they have a parallel evolution and prognosis and deafness helps to identify the renal disease	.
rd-disab	9	27	Bilateral sensorineural hearing loss is a characteristic feature of Alport syndrome which is always linked to renal manifestations so they have a parallel evolution and prognosis and deafness helps to identify the renal disease	.
rd-disab	26	18	Here we present a 44year old patient who presented to our hospital with central respiratory failure cognitive impairment ataxia and parkinsonism and was first diagnosed with Wolfram syndrome	.
rd-disab	26	16	Here we present a 44year old patient who presented to our hospital with central respiratory failure cognitive impairment ataxia and parkinsonism and was first diagnosed with Wolfram syndrome	.
rd-disab	7	14	We report the twentieth patient diagnosed with SHORT syndrome who presented with growth retardation sensorineural hearing loss and minor dysmorphic features consistent with the phenotype described for this syndrome	.
rd-disab	7	12	We report the twentieth patient diagnosed with SHORT syndrome who presented with growth retardation sensorineural hearing loss and minor dysmorphic features consistent with the phenotype described for this syndrome	.
rd-disab	0	11	BFLS mental disability is evident from an early age suggesting a developmental brain defect	.
rd-disab	0	1	BFLS mental disability is evident from an early age suggesting a developmental brain defect	.
rd-disab	0	16	Cowchock syndrome CMTX4 is a slowly progressive X linked recessive disorder with axonal neuropathy deafness and cognitive impairment	.
rd-disab	0	14	Cowchock syndrome CMTX4 is a slowly progressive X linked recessive disorder with axonal neuropathy deafness and cognitive impairment	.
rd-disab	2	13	Patients with PRS I superactivity primarily present with uric acid overproduction mental retardation ataxia hypotonia and hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	2	16	Patients with PRS I superactivity primarily present with uric acid overproduction mental retardation ataxia hypotonia and hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	2	11	Patients with PRS I superactivity primarily present with uric acid overproduction mental retardation ataxia hypotonia and hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	10	0	Sensorineural hearing loss is a common symptom in patients with myoclonic epilepsy associated with ragged red fibres MERRF one of the mitochondrial encephalomyopathies although the lesion causing hearing loss in such cases remains unknown	.
rd-disab	0	23	Wolfram syndrome WS is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by diabetes insipidus DI insulin dependent diabetes mellitus DM optic atrophy OA and deafness caused by mutations in WFS1 gene 4p16 1 which encodes an endoplasmic reticulum protein called Wolframin	.
rd-disab	0	19	Wolfram syndrome WS is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by diabetes insipidus DI insulin dependent diabetes mellitus DM optic atrophy OA and deafness caused by mutations in WFS1 gene 4p16 1 which encodes an endoplasmic reticulum protein called Wolframin	.
rd-disab	0	14	Angelman Syndrome AS is a devastating neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by developmental delay speech impairment movement disorder sleep disorders and refractory epilepsy	.
rd-disab	0	16	Angelman Syndrome AS is a devastating neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by developmental delay speech impairment movement disorder sleep disorders and refractory epilepsy	.
rd-disab	0	6	Angelman Syndrome AS is a devastating neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by developmental delay speech impairment movement disorder sleep disorders and refractory epilepsy	.
rd-disab	0	12	Angelman Syndrome AS is a devastating neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by developmental delay speech impairment movement disorder sleep disorders and refractory epilepsy	.
rd-disab	0	10	Angelman Syndrome AS is a devastating neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by developmental delay speech impairment movement disorder sleep disorders and refractory epilepsy	.
rd-disab	1	16	The oculoauriculovertebral dysplasia is a rare congenital malformation that is characterized by a hemifacial microsomia with ocular abnormalities and coexisting disorders in the spinal column and other organs	.
rd-disab	0	11	CHARGE syndrome was discussed because of ear anomalies choanal atresia and developmental delay in our patients	.
rd-disab	12	12	Pyramidal signs have been frequently observed in several SCA subtypes particularly in spinocerebellar ataxia type 1	.
rd-disab	0	11	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is an X linked disorder characterized by growth and psychomotor retardation hypotonia and progressive skeletal changes	.
rd-disab	0	27	Möbius syndrome is also phenotypically heterogeneous with minimal diagnostic criteria of nonprogressive facial weakness and impaired ocular abduction mental retardation autism motor disabilities additional eye movements restrictions hearing loss hypoventilation and craniofacial lingual and limb abnormalities also occur	.
rd-disab	0	18	Möbius syndrome is also phenotypically heterogeneous with minimal diagnostic criteria of nonprogressive facial weakness and impaired ocular abduction mental retardation autism motor disabilities additional eye movements restrictions hearing loss hypoventilation and craniofacial lingual and limb abnormalities also occur	.
rd-disab	0	20	Möbius syndrome is also phenotypically heterogeneous with minimal diagnostic criteria of nonprogressive facial weakness and impaired ocular abduction mental retardation autism motor disabilities additional eye movements restrictions hearing loss hypoventilation and craniofacial lingual and limb abnormalities also occur	.
rd-disab	0	21	Möbius syndrome is also phenotypically heterogeneous with minimal diagnostic criteria of nonprogressive facial weakness and impaired ocular abduction mental retardation autism motor disabilities additional eye movements restrictions hearing loss hypoventilation and craniofacial lingual and limb abnormalities also occur	.
rd-disab	0	25	CMTX1 should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients who present with transient central nervous system phenomena including stroke like episodes tetraparesis suggestive of periodic paralysis dysarthria ataxia or combinations of these deficits	.
rd-disab	0	22	CMTX1 should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients who present with transient central nervous system phenomena including stroke like episodes tetraparesis suggestive of periodic paralysis dysarthria ataxia or combinations of these deficits	.
rd-disab	0	28	CMTX1 should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients who present with transient central nervous system phenomena including stroke like episodes tetraparesis suggestive of periodic paralysis dysarthria ataxia or combinations of these deficits	.
rd-disab	0	27	CMTX1 should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients who present with transient central nervous system phenomena including stroke like episodes tetraparesis suggestive of periodic paralysis dysarthria ataxia or combinations of these deficits	.
rd-disab	25	25	CMTX1 should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients who present with transient central nervous system phenomena including stroke like episodes tetraparesis suggestive of periodic paralysis dysarthria ataxia or combinations of these deficits	.
rd-disab	0	9	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 SCA14 is an autosomal dominant hereditary ataxia characterized by a relatively pure cerebellar phenotype	.
rd-disab	0	0	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 SCA14 is an autosomal dominant hereditary ataxia characterized by a relatively pure cerebellar phenotype	.
rd-disab	6	6	In 2000 the other blinding disorder dominant optic atrophy DOA Kjer type was found associated with mutations in the nuclear gene OPA1 that encodes a mitochondrial protein	.
rd-disab	3	18	OBJECTIVES Autosomal recessive long QT syndrome LQTS or Jervell and Lange Nielsen syndrome JLNS can be associated with sensorineural hearing loss	.
rd-disab	8	18	OBJECTIVES Autosomal recessive long QT syndrome LQTS or Jervell and Lange Nielsen syndrome JLNS can be associated with sensorineural hearing loss	.
rd-disab	6	18	We report a female child with tetrasomy of the 15q11 q13 chromosomal region and autistic disorder associated with mental retardation developmental problems and behavioral disorders	.
rd-disab	6	23	We report a female child with tetrasomy of the 15q11 q13 chromosomal region and autistic disorder associated with mental retardation developmental problems and behavioral disorders	.
rd-disab	5	0	Social deficits are prevalent in Turner syndrome TS however the extent to which these difficulties are secondary to characteristic cognitive impairments is not well known	.
rd-disab	5	8	About 10 of patients with SPS may develop ataxia	.
rd-disab	5	8	About 10 of patients with SPS may develop ataxia	.
rd-disab	14	32	Since all patients with BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome are male and X linked syndrome of ichthyosis follicularis with atrichia and photophobia is sometimes associated with several features of BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome such as intellectual disability vertebral and renal anomalies and Hirschsprung disease we analyzed the causal gene of ichthyosis follicularis with atrichia and photophobia syndrome MBTPS2 in the present patient and identified an p Arg429His mutation	.
rd-disab	5	32	Since all patients with BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome are male and X linked syndrome of ichthyosis follicularis with atrichia and photophobia is sometimes associated with several features of BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome such as intellectual disability vertebral and renal anomalies and Hirschsprung disease we analyzed the causal gene of ichthyosis follicularis with atrichia and photophobia syndrome MBTPS2 in the present patient and identified an p Arg429His mutation	.
rd-disab	5	32	Since all patients with BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome are male and X linked syndrome of ichthyosis follicularis with atrichia and photophobia is sometimes associated with several features of BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome such as intellectual disability vertebral and renal anomalies and Hirschsprung disease we analyzed the causal gene of ichthyosis follicularis with atrichia and photophobia syndrome MBTPS2 in the present patient and identified an p Arg429His mutation	.
rd-disab	14	17	Phf6 gene expression and nuclear localisation of Phf6 protein correlate with clinical symptoms in BFLS patients namely mental disability pan anterior pituitary hormonal deficiency and facial as well digit abnormalities	.
rd-disab	7	22	Duplication of 17p11 2 also known as Potocki Lupski syndrome PTLS is a well described microduplication syndrome featuring cognitive and language deficits developmental delay autistic behavior structural cardiovascular anomalies hypotonia failure to thrive apnea and dysmorphism	.
rd-disab	7	18	Duplication of 17p11 2 also known as Potocki Lupski syndrome PTLS is a well described microduplication syndrome featuring cognitive and language deficits developmental delay autistic behavior structural cardiovascular anomalies hypotonia failure to thrive apnea and dysmorphism	.
rd-disab	7	24	Duplication of 17p11 2 also known as Potocki Lupski syndrome PTLS is a well described microduplication syndrome featuring cognitive and language deficits developmental delay autistic behavior structural cardiovascular anomalies hypotonia failure to thrive apnea and dysmorphism	.
rd-disab	21	3	Various congenital malformations mental retardation and high rate of infant mortality in the first year of life are characteristic features of trisomy 18	.
rd-disab	3	7	Early onset childhood dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy involved mental retardation whereas myoclonic epilepsy was the predominant complaint in later onset childhood version of the disease	.
rd-disab	19	12	A review of the current literature reveals only chronic otitis media and conductive hearing loss as otolaryngologic manifestations of Soto s syndrome	.
rd-disab	20	20	We show that linoleic and linolenic acids deuterated at the peroxidation prone bis allylic positions actively rescue oxidative stress challenged Friedreich ataxia cells	.
rd-disab	1	16	BACKGROUND Dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy DRPLA is a rare autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease that is associated with numerous movement disorders	.
rd-disab	7	21	Systematic clinical studies revealed features consistent with SMS including features of intellectual disability speech and gross motor delays behavioral problems and ocular abnormalities	.
rd-disab	7	11	Systematic clinical studies revealed features consistent with SMS including features of intellectual disability speech and gross motor delays behavioral problems and ocular abnormalities	.
rd-disab	7	13	Systematic clinical studies revealed features consistent with SMS including features of intellectual disability speech and gross motor delays behavioral problems and ocular abnormalities	.
rd-disab	7	18	Systematic clinical studies revealed features consistent with SMS including features of intellectual disability speech and gross motor delays behavioral problems and ocular abnormalities	.
rd-disab	10	2	Rats developed behavioral impairments similar to those in patients with FTD after TBI	.
rd-disab	1	6	CONCLUSIONS Darier disease is associated with intellectual disability and subclinical impairments in cognitive ability	.
rd-disab	1	9	CONCLUSIONS Darier disease is associated with intellectual disability and subclinical impairments in cognitive ability	.
rd-disab	0	18	Langer Giedion Syndrome LGS with characteristic phenotypic features including craniofacial dysmorphic signs postnatal growth retardation and skeletal abnormalities mental impairment urogenital malformations and heart defects is caused by partial deletions of the long arm of chromosome 8	.
rd-disab	0	12	Langer Giedion Syndrome LGS with characteristic phenotypic features including craniofacial dysmorphic signs postnatal growth retardation and skeletal abnormalities mental impairment urogenital malformations and heart defects is caused by partial deletions of the long arm of chromosome 8	.
rd-disab	5	19	Mitochondrial ornithine transporter deficiency or HHH syndrome is a metabolic disorder resulting in various neurologic symptoms including mental retardation spastic paraparesis with pyramidal signs cerebellar ataxia and episodic disturbance of consciousness or coma caused by hyperammonemia	.
rd-disab	5	17	Mitochondrial ornithine transporter deficiency or HHH syndrome is a metabolic disorder resulting in various neurologic symptoms including mental retardation spastic paraparesis with pyramidal signs cerebellar ataxia and episodic disturbance of consciousness or coma caused by hyperammonemia	.
rd-disab	5	24	Mitochondrial ornithine transporter deficiency or HHH syndrome is a metabolic disorder resulting in various neurologic symptoms including mental retardation spastic paraparesis with pyramidal signs cerebellar ataxia and episodic disturbance of consciousness or coma caused by hyperammonemia	.
rd-disab	0	11	MPS VII is associated with mixed conductive and sensorineural hearing loss vision defects shortened stature mental retardation and decreased lifespan	.
rd-disab	0	9	MPS VII is associated with mixed conductive and sensorineural hearing loss vision defects shortened stature mental retardation and decreased lifespan	.
rd-disab	0	15	MPS VII is associated with mixed conductive and sensorineural hearing loss vision defects shortened stature mental retardation and decreased lifespan	.
rd-disab	1	11	BACKGROUND Jacobsen syndrome JBS is a rare chromosomal disorder leading to multiple physical and mental impairment	.
rd-disab	13	11	A 70 year old man was admitted to our hospital with visual loss dysesthesia gait disturbance and urinary retention	.
rd-disab	13	14	A 70 year old man was admitted to our hospital with visual loss dysesthesia gait disturbance and urinary retention	.
rd-disab	6	13	The clinical picture typically associated with cri du chat syndrome is one of profound intellectual impairment severe motor delay and increased morbidity	.
rd-disab	6	16	The clinical picture typically associated with cri du chat syndrome is one of profound intellectual impairment severe motor delay and increased morbidity	.
rd-disab	24	24	We report an 11 year old girl for whom the diagnosis of cri du chat syndrome CdCS was made during a genetic investigation of childhood apraxia of speech	.
rd-disab	12	24	We report an 11 year old girl for whom the diagnosis of cri du chat syndrome CdCS was made during a genetic investigation of childhood apraxia of speech	.
rd-disab	14	6	The risk of being diagnosed with intellectual disability was estimated in 770 individuals with Darier disease compared with matched comparison individuals without Darier disease	.
rd-disab	16	11	OBJECTIVES To better establish the incidence and types of otologic and auditory abnormalities in patients with Crouzon syndrome	.
rd-disab	3	10	Most patients with Townes Brocks syndrome have normal intelligence although mental retardation has been noted in a few	.
rd-disab	16	23	Using diagnostic measures and clinical judgement 3 subjects 2 BDNF+ and 1 BDNF+ + in the WAGR group 10 7 were classified with autism spectrum disorder	.
rd-disab	21	1	Furthermore behavioral and psychiatric problems need to be looked for when caring for children and adolescents with a known diagnosis of del22q11	.
rd-disab	0	17	Multiple System Atrophy MSA is a neurodegenerative disease which presents heterogeneously with symptoms and signs of parkinsonism ataxia and autonomic dysfunction	.
rd-disab	0	19	Multiple System Atrophy MSA is a neurodegenerative disease which presents heterogeneously with symptoms and signs of parkinsonism ataxia and autonomic dysfunction	.
rd-disab	28	28	There is no consensus about its name despite the fact that its clinical and radiological features are well defined and distinguish it from other types of FTD including semantic dementia	.
rd-disab	26	28	There is no consensus about its name despite the fact that its clinical and radiological features are well defined and distinguish it from other types of FTD including semantic dementia	.
rd-disab	0	14	Menkes disease presents in the first several months of life with failure to thrive developmental delay and seizures	.
rd-disab	5	32	BACKGROUND The classic form of Chédiak Higashi syndrome CHS an autosomal recessive disorder of lysosomal trafficking with childhood onset caused by mutations in ITALIC! LYST is typified ophthalmologically by ocular albinism with vision loss attributed to foveal hypoplasia or nystagmus	.
rd-disab	6	14	Furthermore we evaluated the similarities of SMS adult food related behaviors to those with intellectual disability and found that SMS adults had more severe behavioral problems	.
rd-disab	6	23	Furthermore we evaluated the similarities of SMS adult food related behaviors to those with intellectual disability and found that SMS adults had more severe behavioral problems	.
rd-disab	0	12	Cohen syndrome is a rare genetic disorder consisting of truncal obesity hypotonia mental retardation microcephalia characteristic facial appearance and ocular anomalies	.
rd-disab	0	19	Cohen syndrome is a rare genetic disorder consisting of truncal obesity hypotonia mental retardation microcephalia characteristic facial appearance and ocular anomalies	.
rd-disab	0	23	Diamond Blackfan anaemia is a rare disease caused by insufficient expression of ribosomal proteins and is characterized by erythroid hypoplasia often accompanied by growth retardation congenital craniofacial and limb abnormalities	.
rd-disab	7	17	Patients with mitochondrial ornithine transporter deficiency or HHH syndrome present with various neurological symptoms including mental retardation spastic paraparesis with pyramidal signs cerebellar ataxia and episodic disturbance of consciousness or coma due to hyperammonemia	.
rd-disab	7	22	Patients with mitochondrial ornithine transporter deficiency or HHH syndrome present with various neurological symptoms including mental retardation spastic paraparesis with pyramidal signs cerebellar ataxia and episodic disturbance of consciousness or coma due to hyperammonemia	.
rd-disab	7	15	Patients with mitochondrial ornithine transporter deficiency or HHH syndrome present with various neurological symptoms including mental retardation spastic paraparesis with pyramidal signs cerebellar ataxia and episodic disturbance of consciousness or coma due to hyperammonemia	.
rd-disab	3	0	Cognitive impairments in ataxia telangiectasia present early coinciding with cerebellar pathology and are characteristic of the cerebellar cognitive affective syndrome	.
rd-disab	3	3	Cognitive impairments in ataxia telangiectasia present early coinciding with cerebellar pathology and are characteristic of the cerebellar cognitive affective syndrome	.
rd-disab	0	15	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a complex disorder characterized by numerous challenges including intellectual disability speech delay decreased pain sensitivity sleep disturbances hyperactivity mood instability and self injury	.
rd-disab	0	13	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a complex disorder characterized by numerous challenges including intellectual disability speech delay decreased pain sensitivity sleep disturbances hyperactivity mood instability and self injury	.
rd-disab	0	20	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a complex disorder characterized by numerous challenges including intellectual disability speech delay decreased pain sensitivity sleep disturbances hyperactivity mood instability and self injury	.
rd-disab	0	22	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a complex disorder characterized by numerous challenges including intellectual disability speech delay decreased pain sensitivity sleep disturbances hyperactivity mood instability and self injury	.
rd-disab	7	18	We describe a girl with late onset nonketotic hyperglycinemia presenting at 5 years of age with hypotonia chorea ataxia and alterations in consciousness in the setting of febrile illness	.
rd-disab	0	11	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive motor dysfunction and loss of large motor neurons in the spinal cord and brain stem	.
rd-disab	38	33	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 SCA6 is caused by small CAG repeat expansion in the gene encoding the 1A voltage dependent calcium channel subunit CACNL1A4 on chromosome 19p13 and is a subgroup of the late onset pure cerebellar ataxia ADCA III	.
rd-disab	38	0	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 SCA6 is caused by small CAG repeat expansion in the gene encoding the 1A voltage dependent calcium channel subunit CACNL1A4 on chromosome 19p13 and is a subgroup of the late onset pure cerebellar ataxia ADCA III	.
rd-disab	0	0	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 SCA6 is caused by small CAG repeat expansion in the gene encoding the 1A voltage dependent calcium channel subunit CACNL1A4 on chromosome 19p13 and is a subgroup of the late onset pure cerebellar ataxia ADCA III	.
rd-disab	0	31	Autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxias SCAs are a clinical and genetically heterogeneous group of debilitating neurodegenerative diseases that are related to at least 36 different genetic loci they are clinically characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia and are frequently accompanied by other neurological and non neurological manifestations	.
rd-disab	0	0	Inherited retinal dystrophies IRDs comprise a large group of genetically and clinically heterogeneous diseases that lead to progressive vision loss for which a paucity of disease mimicking animal models renders preclinical studies difficult	.
rd-disab	0	17	Inherited retinal dystrophies IRDs comprise a large group of genetically and clinically heterogeneous diseases that lead to progressive vision loss for which a paucity of disease mimicking animal models renders preclinical studies difficult	.
rd-disab	27	34	The 90 kDa ribosomal S6 serine threonine kinase 2 gene RSK2 U08316 has been recently identified as a disease causing gene in an X linked disorder the Coffin Lowry Syndrome MIM 303600 characterized by severe mental retardation facial dysmorphisms and progressive skeletal malformations	.
rd-disab	15	8	This pattern of expression may be involved in cognitive impairment and facial dysmorphisms found in Coffin Lowry Syndrome	.
rd-disab	40	23	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
rd-disab	40	18	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
rd-disab	57	18	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
rd-disab	57	23	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
rd-disab	48	23	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
rd-disab	48	18	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
rd-disab	48	32	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
rd-disab	17	24	In this article we report on a family in which five examined members showed clinical signs of Fechtner syndrome a condition which consists of hearing loss 49 macro thrombocytopenia 100 leukocyte inclusion bodies 100 eye anomalies 54 3 and nephritis 38 7	.
rd-disab	9	9	A 42 year old female disclosed a late onset retinal dystrophy	.
rd-disab	0	17	Schinzel Giedion syndrome is a rare recognizable malformation syndrome defined by characteristic facial features profound developmental delay severe growth failure and multiple congenital anomalies	.
rd-disab	0	14	Schinzel Giedion syndrome is a rare recognizable malformation syndrome defined by characteristic facial features profound developmental delay severe growth failure and multiple congenital anomalies	.
rd-disab	0	9	Infantile Refsum disease IRD appears with varying degrees of impaired vision hearing loss developmental delays and neuromotor deficiencies	.
rd-disab	0	13	Infantile Refsum disease IRD appears with varying degrees of impaired vision hearing loss developmental delays and neuromotor deficiencies	.
rd-disab	0	11	Infantile Refsum disease IRD appears with varying degrees of impaired vision hearing loss developmental delays and neuromotor deficiencies	.
rd-disab	8	18	A 6 year old boy with formerly diagnosed Klippel Feil syndrome KFS presented with complaints of hearing loss speech disorder and problems related to his hearing aid	.
rd-disab	8	16	A 6 year old boy with formerly diagnosed Klippel Feil syndrome KFS presented with complaints of hearing loss speech disorder and problems related to his hearing aid	.
rd-disab	0	8	Nonketotic hyperglycinemia is a neurometabolic disorder characterized by intellectual disability seizures and spasticity	.
rd-disab	0	10	NS is characterized by dysmorphic external ear anomalies and both sensorineural and conductive hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	9	13	Heterozygous germline mutations in the proto oncogene HRAS cause Costello syndrome CS an intellectual disability condition with severe failure to thrive cardiac abnormalities predisposition to tumors and neurologic abnormalities	.
rd-disab	1	12	BACKGROUND Gillespie syndrome is a rare variant form of aniridia characterized by mental retardation nonprogressive cerebellar ataxia and iris hypoplasia	.
rd-disab	1	14	BACKGROUND Gillespie syndrome is a rare variant form of aniridia characterized by mental retardation nonprogressive cerebellar ataxia and iris hypoplasia	.
rd-disab	9	14	BACKGROUND Gillespie syndrome is a rare variant form of aniridia characterized by mental retardation nonprogressive cerebellar ataxia and iris hypoplasia	.
rd-disab	9	12	BACKGROUND Gillespie syndrome is a rare variant form of aniridia characterized by mental retardation nonprogressive cerebellar ataxia and iris hypoplasia	.
rd-disab	0	14	Smith Magenis syndrome is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that includes intellectual deficiency speech delay behavioral disturbance and typical sleep disorders	.
rd-disab	0	18	Smith Magenis syndrome is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that includes intellectual deficiency speech delay behavioral disturbance and typical sleep disorders	.
rd-disab	0	5	Smith Magenis syndrome is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that includes intellectual deficiency speech delay behavioral disturbance and typical sleep disorders	.
rd-disab	0	10	Smith Magenis syndrome is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that includes intellectual deficiency speech delay behavioral disturbance and typical sleep disorders	.
rd-disab	0	12	Smith Magenis syndrome is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder that includes intellectual deficiency speech delay behavioral disturbance and typical sleep disorders	.
rd-disab	0	27	Neuro Behçet disease NBD can be categorized clinically as the acute type characterized by meningoencephalitis and the chronic progressive type characterized by slowly progressive dementia ataxia and dysarthria	.
rd-disab	0	22	Neuro Behçet disease NBD can be categorized clinically as the acute type characterized by meningoencephalitis and the chronic progressive type characterized by slowly progressive dementia ataxia and dysarthria	.
rd-disab	0	25	Neuro Behçet disease NBD can be categorized clinically as the acute type characterized by meningoencephalitis and the chronic progressive type characterized by slowly progressive dementia ataxia and dysarthria	.
rd-disab	21	14	One aim of the present report was to work out the clinical appearance of hearing loss compared to hearing loss in Alport s syndrome	.
rd-disab	18	18	Three different genes of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor synthesis pathway PIGV PIGO and PGAP2 have recently been implicated in hyperphosphatasia mental retardation syndrome HPMRS also known as Mabry syndrome a rare autosomal recessive form of intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	18	34	Three different genes of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor synthesis pathway PIGV PIGO and PGAP2 have recently been implicated in hyperphosphatasia mental retardation syndrome HPMRS also known as Mabry syndrome a rare autosomal recessive form of intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	26	18	Three different genes of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor synthesis pathway PIGV PIGO and PGAP2 have recently been implicated in hyperphosphatasia mental retardation syndrome HPMRS also known as Mabry syndrome a rare autosomal recessive form of intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	26	34	Three different genes of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor synthesis pathway PIGV PIGO and PGAP2 have recently been implicated in hyperphosphatasia mental retardation syndrome HPMRS also known as Mabry syndrome a rare autosomal recessive form of intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	14	0	Hearing loss occurs in variable percentage as a component part of all FGFR related craniosynostosis syndromes	.
rd-disab	0	37	Lennox Gastaut syndrome is an epilepsy syndrome that begins in childhood between 1 and 8 years of age worsens during latency and persists frequently into adulthood is refractory to antiepileptic medications and results in cognitive decline and behavioral problems in affected individuals	.
rd-disab	0	34	Lennox Gastaut syndrome is an epilepsy syndrome that begins in childhood between 1 and 8 years of age worsens during latency and persists frequently into adulthood is refractory to antiepileptic medications and results in cognitive decline and behavioral problems in affected individuals	.
rd-disab	12	23	Lysosome associated membrane protein 2 LAMP 2 is the gene responsible for Danon disease which is characterized by cardiomyopathy autophagic vacuolar myopathy and variable mental retardation	.
rd-disab	0	0	Frontotemporal dementia motor neuron disease and frontotemporal dementia motor neuron disease are characterised by overlapping patterns of TAR DNA binding protein TDP 43 pathology while the chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 C9orf72 repeat expansion is common across the disease spectrum	.
rd-disab	2	8	CONCLUSION When ichthyosis is associated with spasticity and mental retardation one should consider SLS	.
rd-disab	4	10	Children affected with infantile Krabbe disease present with motor dysfunction cognitive decline intractable seizures and premature death between two to five years of age	.
rd-disab	4	8	Children affected with infantile Krabbe disease present with motor dysfunction cognitive decline intractable seizures and premature death between two to five years of age	.
rd-disab	1	10	The Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is a syndromic form of X linked mental retardation characterised in male patients by psychomotor and growth retardation and various skeletal anomalies	.
rd-disab	1	19	The Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is a syndromic form of X linked mental retardation characterised in male patients by psychomotor and growth retardation and various skeletal anomalies	.
rd-disab	5	10	These results further implicate that trisomy 9p is associated with mental retardation and that there may be key gene duplication on chromosome 9p21 3→9pter responsible for mental retardation and mild facial anomaly	.
rd-disab	10	10	Widespread and deeper cognitive deficits manifest in later stages of ataxia telangiectasia when additional noncerebellar pathology develops	.
rd-disab	10	0	Widespread and deeper cognitive deficits manifest in later stages of ataxia telangiectasia when additional noncerebellar pathology develops	.
rd-disab	10	13	We review the scanty literature data on the association of Cowden syndrome and autism and emphasize that the association of progressive macrocephaly and pervasive developmental disorder seems to be an indication for screening for PTEN mutations	.
rd-disab	10	23	We review the scanty literature data on the association of Cowden syndrome and autism and emphasize that the association of progressive macrocephaly and pervasive developmental disorder seems to be an indication for screening for PTEN mutations	.
rd-disab	0	32	Treacher Collins syndrome TCS OMIM 154500 is a well defined mandibulofacial dysostosis characterized by symmetric facial anomalies consisting of malar hypoplasia coloboma of the lower eyelid dysplastic ears micrognathia cleft palate and deafness	.
rd-disab	12	17	In areas without expanded newborn screening instead of presenting neonatally patients with arginase deficiency typically present with spastic paraplegia in early childhood	.
rd-disab	0	21	Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS is a contiguous gene deletion syndrome of the distal 4p chromosome characterized by craniofacial features growth impairment intellectual disability and seizures	.
rd-disab	0	19	Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS is a contiguous gene deletion syndrome of the distal 4p chromosome characterized by craniofacial features growth impairment intellectual disability and seizures	.
rd-disab	13	16	We show that Pex1 G844D homozygous mice recapitulate many classic features of mild ZSD cases including growth retardation and fatty livers with cholestasis	.
rd-disab	0	17	Atypical nonketotic hyperglycinemia is characterized by heterogeneous phenotypes that often include nonspecific behavioral problems cognitive deficits and developmental delays	.
rd-disab	0	14	Atypical nonketotic hyperglycinemia is characterized by heterogeneous phenotypes that often include nonspecific behavioral problems cognitive deficits and developmental delays	.
rd-disab	0	11	Atypical nonketotic hyperglycinemia is characterized by heterogeneous phenotypes that often include nonspecific behavioral problems cognitive deficits and developmental delays	.
rd-disab	10	17	This report provides evidence for intrafamilial phenotypic variability of paternal dup 15q11 q13 ranging from normal to intellectual disability and seizures and potentially expanding the phenotype of paternal 15q11 q13 interstitial duplications	.
rd-disab	0	14	Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome an X linked condition characterized by severe intellectual disability dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia is associated with defects in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 gene MCT8	.
rd-disab	0	13	Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome an X linked condition characterized by severe intellectual disability dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia is associated with defects in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 gene MCT8	.
rd-disab	0	19	Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome an X linked condition characterized by severe intellectual disability dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia is associated with defects in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 gene MCT8	.
rd-disab	0	10	Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome an X linked condition characterized by severe intellectual disability dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia is associated with defects in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 gene MCT8	.
rd-disab	21	14	The present study sought to investigate the relationship between challenging behavior comorbid psychopathology and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder AD HD in Fragile X Syndrome FRAX	.
rd-disab	21	16	The present study sought to investigate the relationship between challenging behavior comorbid psychopathology and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder AD HD in Fragile X Syndrome FRAX	.
rd-disab	0	20	D 2 Hydroxyglutaric aciduria was documented in a newborn who presented with seizures hypotonia cortical blindness a movement disorder and developmental delay	.
rd-disab	0	14	D 2 Hydroxyglutaric aciduria was documented in a newborn who presented with seizures hypotonia cortical blindness a movement disorder and developmental delay	.
rd-disab	0	17	D 2 Hydroxyglutaric aciduria was documented in a newborn who presented with seizures hypotonia cortical blindness a movement disorder and developmental delay	.
rd-disab	0	5	KS is occasionally associated with deafness	.
rd-disab	12	14	Despite a general favorable outcome more severe epilepsy syndromes may develop after MEI and mental retardation is sometimes observed	.
rd-disab	1	18	The Stickler syndrome is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterised by ocular orofacial and skeletal anomalies and or auditory loss	.
rd-disab	1	11	The Stickler syndrome is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterised by ocular orofacial and skeletal anomalies and or auditory loss	.
rd-disab	0	19	1p36 deletion syndrome is reported in 1 in 5 000 10 000 newborns and its characteristic clinical features include developmental delay mental retardation hypotonia congenital heart defects seizure and facial dysmorphism	.
rd-disab	0	21	1p36 deletion syndrome is reported in 1 in 5 000 10 000 newborns and its characteristic clinical features include developmental delay mental retardation hypotonia congenital heart defects seizure and facial dysmorphism	.
rd-disab	11	20	We describe a case of a 5 year old boy with SLS diagnosed clinically based on congenital ichythosis quadriplegia and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	11	18	We describe a case of a 5 year old boy with SLS diagnosed clinically based on congenital ichythosis quadriplegia and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	0	9	Kabuki syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by intellectual disability and multiple congenital anomalies including short stature peculiar facial appearance skeletal anomalies a variety of visceral malformations and abnormal dermatoglyphic patterns	.
rd-disab	18	18	Screening for mutation in the mitochondrial DNA mtDNA was performed because of the combination of neurologic involvement and retinal dystrophy in this family	.
rd-disab	1	24	The Mohr Tranebjaerg syndrome MIM 304700 and the Jensen syndrome MIM 311150 were previously reported as separate X linked recessive deafness syndromes associated with progressive visual deterioration dystonia dementia and psychiatric abnormalities	.
rd-disab	1	30	The Mohr Tranebjaerg syndrome MIM 304700 and the Jensen syndrome MIM 311150 were previously reported as separate X linked recessive deafness syndromes associated with progressive visual deterioration dystonia dementia and psychiatric abnormalities	.
rd-disab	1	28	The Mohr Tranebjaerg syndrome MIM 304700 and the Jensen syndrome MIM 311150 were previously reported as separate X linked recessive deafness syndromes associated with progressive visual deterioration dystonia dementia and psychiatric abnormalities	.
rd-disab	5	22	This unique presentation suggests that facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy should be considered in the differential diagnosis of children with cognitive impairment seizures and hearing loss	.
rd-disab	5	18	This unique presentation suggests that facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy should be considered in the differential diagnosis of children with cognitive impairment seizures and hearing loss	.
rd-disab	2	26	Children with CHARGE have different combinations of disabilities of which impairments of vision and hearing as well as balance problems and facial palsy can lead to developmental delay	.
rd-disab	2	10	Children with CHARGE have different combinations of disabilities of which impairments of vision and hearing as well as balance problems and facial palsy can lead to developmental delay	.
rd-disab	23	17	Dementia is an exclusion criterion in current consensus diagnostic criteria while growing evidence suggests the occurrence of cognitive dysfunction and even dementia in multiple system atrophy MSA patients	.
rd-disab	23	21	Dementia is an exclusion criterion in current consensus diagnostic criteria while growing evidence suggests the occurrence of cognitive dysfunction and even dementia in multiple system atrophy MSA patients	.
rd-disab	5	19	Of the 30 children with DS and without epilepsy 21 70 had mild mental retardation and 9 30 had moderate to severe cognitive impairment	.
rd-disab	5	12	Of the 30 children with DS and without epilepsy 21 70 had mild mental retardation and 9 30 had moderate to severe cognitive impairment	.
rd-disab	24	29	We now confirm by electrophysiology that a progressive sensorimotor polyneuropathy does indeed segregate with the mutation and expand the TUBB3 E410K phenotype to include Kallmann syndrome hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia stereotyped midface hypoplasia intellectual disabilities and in some cases vocal cord paralysis tracheomalacia and cyclic vomiting	.
rd-disab	24	33	We now confirm by electrophysiology that a progressive sensorimotor polyneuropathy does indeed segregate with the mutation and expand the TUBB3 E410K phenotype to include Kallmann syndrome hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia stereotyped midface hypoplasia intellectual disabilities and in some cases vocal cord paralysis tracheomalacia and cyclic vomiting	.
rd-disab	8	5	Low uric acid level predicting cognitive decline in MSA needs more studies	.
rd-disab	18	14	We used the Behavior Problems Inventory 01 to categorize the frequency and severity of behavioral abnormalities in a SMS cohort relative to individuals with intellectual disability of heterogeneous etiology	.
rd-disab	0	11	22q13 deletion syndrome also known as Phelan McDermid syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability hypotonia delayed or absent speech and autistic features	.
rd-disab	0	15	22q13 deletion syndrome also known as Phelan McDermid syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability hypotonia delayed or absent speech and autistic features	.
rd-disab	6	15	22q13 deletion syndrome also known as Phelan McDermid syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability hypotonia delayed or absent speech and autistic features	.
rd-disab	6	18	22q13 deletion syndrome also known as Phelan McDermid syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability hypotonia delayed or absent speech and autistic features	.
rd-disab	0	18	22q13 deletion syndrome also known as Phelan McDermid syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability hypotonia delayed or absent speech and autistic features	.
rd-disab	6	23	22q13 deletion syndrome also known as Phelan McDermid syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability hypotonia delayed or absent speech and autistic features	.
rd-disab	0	23	22q13 deletion syndrome also known as Phelan McDermid syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability hypotonia delayed or absent speech and autistic features	.
rd-disab	6	11	22q13 deletion syndrome also known as Phelan McDermid syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability hypotonia delayed or absent speech and autistic features	.
rd-disab	26	21	Mutations in the centrosomal ciliary gene CEP290 NPHP6 are associated with Joubert syndrome and are the most common cause of the childhood recessive blindness known as Leber congenital amaurosis LCA	.
rd-disab	0	19	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is characterized by distinctive facial features that progress with age developmental delay cognitive impairment and behavioral abnormalities associated with molecular anomaly in 17p11 2	.
rd-disab	0	14	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is characterized by distinctive facial features that progress with age developmental delay cognitive impairment and behavioral abnormalities associated with molecular anomaly in 17p11 2	.
rd-disab	0	16	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is characterized by distinctive facial features that progress with age developmental delay cognitive impairment and behavioral abnormalities associated with molecular anomaly in 17p11 2	.
rd-disab	3	0	Hearing impairment in MWS is variable and shows resemblance to previously described intra cochlear conductive hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	20	29	A 48 year old man presented with a complex phenotype of myoclonus epilepsy with ragged red fibers MERRF syndrome and Kearns Sayre syndrome KSS which included progressive myoclonus epilepsy cerebellar ataxia hearing loss myopathic weakness ophthalmoparesis pigmentary retinopathy bifascicular heart block and ragged red fibers	.
rd-disab	20	31	A 48 year old man presented with a complex phenotype of myoclonus epilepsy with ragged red fibers MERRF syndrome and Kearns Sayre syndrome KSS which included progressive myoclonus epilepsy cerebellar ataxia hearing loss myopathic weakness ophthalmoparesis pigmentary retinopathy bifascicular heart block and ragged red fibers	.
rd-disab	0	18	MSUD is a complex metabolic disorder that has been associated with central nervous system damage developmental delays and neurocognitive deficits	.
rd-disab	0	15	MSUD is a complex metabolic disorder that has been associated with central nervous system damage developmental delays and neurocognitive deficits	.
rd-disab	10	19	Stimulant medication may be a safe and effective intervention for Sturge Weber syndrome children with attention issues attention deficit hyperactivity disorder	.
rd-disab	10	15	Stimulant medication may be a safe and effective intervention for Sturge Weber syndrome children with attention issues attention deficit hyperactivity disorder	.
rd-disab	10	15	Stimulant medication may be a safe and effective intervention for Sturge Weber syndrome children with attention issues attention deficit hyperactivity disorder	.
rd-disab	4	1	However emotional disturbances in CADASIL patients are incompletely understood	.
rd-disab	0	10	GA 1 is characterized by macrocephaly subdural hemorrhage SDH and dystonic movement disorder after acute encephalopathic crisis	.
rd-disab	0	21	Costello syndrome CS is a rare congenital disorder characterized by severe failure to thrive coarse facial appearance cardiac and skin abnormalities developmental delay intellectual disability and predisposition to malignancies	.
rd-disab	0	23	Costello syndrome CS is a rare congenital disorder characterized by severe failure to thrive coarse facial appearance cardiac and skin abnormalities developmental delay intellectual disability and predisposition to malignancies	.
rd-disab	0	25	Costello syndrome was delineated based on its distinctive phenotype including severe failure to thrive with macrocephaly characteristic facial features hypertrophic cardiomyopathy papillomata malignant tumors and cognitive impairment	.
rd-disab	7	10	2 Only one third of patients with Norrie disease have sensorineural deafness and approximately one half of the affected individuals exhibit mental retardation often with psychotic features	.
rd-disab	1	21	INTRODUCTION Choroideremia is a rare X linked disorder recognized by its specific ocular phenotype as a progressive degenerative retinopathy resulting in blindness	.
rd-disab	6	6	CONCLUSIONS Family caregivers of patients with frontotemporal dementia experience significant distress which impacts their health and wellbeing	.
rd-disab	23	18	We conducted a prospective placebo controlled study to determine the incidence and severity of inner ear involvement and hearing loss in patients with Behçet disease	.
rd-disab	8	19	INTRODUCTION Mutations in PDS or SLC26A4 cause both Pendred syndrome PS and DFNB4 two autosomal recessive disorders that share hearing loss as a common feature	.
rd-disab	4	30	Currently most cases of trisomy 18 are prenatally diagnosed based on screening by maternal age maternal serum marker screening or detection of sonographic abnormalities e g increased nuchal translucency thickness growth retardation choroid plexus cyst overlapping of fingers and congenital heart defects	.
rd-disab	7	7	METHODS Fifty six patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia 20 with concomitant amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and 23 healthy controls underwent neuropsychological assessments detailed clinical interview for assessment of psychosis symptoms brain MRI and genetic testing	.
rd-disab	12	7	METHODS Fifty six patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia 20 with concomitant amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and 23 healthy controls underwent neuropsychological assessments detailed clinical interview for assessment of psychosis symptoms brain MRI and genetic testing	.
rd-disab	21	10	Additionally this article gives a systematic review of literature regarding psychiatric disorders neurologic symptoms and partly corresponding morphological brain abnormalities in 22q11 deletion syndromes	.
rd-disab	29	29	The location of the deletions indicates that they may allow sublocalization of the syndromic features to the most proximal region of X linked distal spinal muscular atrophy DSMAX and Martin Probst deafness mental retardation syndrome MPDMRS	.
rd-disab	23	23	OBJECTIVE This present study aims to address the gap in the literature regarding the severity and underlying neural correlates of psychotic symptoms in frontotemporal dementia with and without the C9orf72 gene expansion	.
rd-disab	7	19	BACKGROUND The RSK2 gene is responsible for Coffin Lowry syndrome an X linked dominant genetic disorder causing mental retardation skeletal growth delays with craniofacial and digital abnormalities typically associated with this syndrome	.
rd-disab	7	17	BACKGROUND The RSK2 gene is responsible for Coffin Lowry syndrome an X linked dominant genetic disorder causing mental retardation skeletal growth delays with craniofacial and digital abnormalities typically associated with this syndrome	.
rd-disab	0	13	Salla disease must be suspected in patients with unexplained psychomotor retardation associated with ataxia and or pyramidal symptoms and MRI findings consistent with cerebral hypomyelination irrespective of the patient s ethnic origin	.
rd-disab	0	8	Salla disease must be suspected in patients with unexplained psychomotor retardation associated with ataxia and or pyramidal symptoms and MRI findings consistent with cerebral hypomyelination irrespective of the patient s ethnic origin	.
rd-disab	0	14	Charcot Marie Tooth CMT disease is characterized by hereditary sensorimotor polyneuropathy with foot deformity sensorineural hearing loss moderate developmental delay and gait disturbance	.
rd-disab	0	21	Charcot Marie Tooth CMT disease is characterized by hereditary sensorimotor polyneuropathy with foot deformity sensorineural hearing loss moderate developmental delay and gait disturbance	.
rd-disab	0	17	Charcot Marie Tooth CMT disease is characterized by hereditary sensorimotor polyneuropathy with foot deformity sensorineural hearing loss moderate developmental delay and gait disturbance	.
rd-disab	0	25	Sjögren Larsson syndrome SLS is an autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder most commonly seen in the Scandinavian population and characterized by congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
rd-disab	0	22	Sjögren Larsson syndrome SLS is an autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder most commonly seen in the Scandinavian population and characterized by congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
rd-disab	0	28	Sjögren Larsson syndrome SLS is an autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder most commonly seen in the Scandinavian population and characterized by congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
rd-disab	2	4	The classical aspartylglucosaminuria phenotype progressive speech delay psychomotor retardation and behavioral abnormalities was observed in 3 Turkish siblings	.
rd-disab	2	10	The classical aspartylglucosaminuria phenotype progressive speech delay psychomotor retardation and behavioral abnormalities was observed in 3 Turkish siblings	.
rd-disab	2	7	The classical aspartylglucosaminuria phenotype progressive speech delay psychomotor retardation and behavioral abnormalities was observed in 3 Turkish siblings	.
rd-disab	16	4	The differential diagnosis of postnatal developmental delay should include free sialic acid storage disorders such as ISSD and Salla disease	.
rd-disab	18	4	The differential diagnosis of postnatal developmental delay should include free sialic acid storage disorders such as ISSD and Salla disease	.
rd-disab	1	8	INTRODUCTION Mowat Wilson syndrome MWS is characterised by severe mental retardation and multiple congenital anomalies	.
rd-disab	1	20	INTRODUCTION Langer Giedion syndrome trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type II is an extremely rare disorder characterized by dysmorphic facial features multiple exostoses mental retardation and digit deformities	.
rd-disab	10	16	The technique can be applied for the rapid screening for fragile X syndrome among patients with intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	28	22	Human genetic defects resulting in the loss one of two REP isoforms REP 1 lead to underprenylation of RabGTPases that manifests in retinal degradation and blindness known as choroideremia	.
rd-disab	28	25	Human genetic defects resulting in the loss one of two REP isoforms REP 1 lead to underprenylation of RabGTPases that manifests in retinal degradation and blindness known as choroideremia	.
rd-disab	19	31	Recently mutations in the SLC16A2 gene coding for the monocarboxylate thyroid hormone transporter 8 MCT8 have been associated with Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS an X linked condition characterized by severe mental retardation dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia	.
rd-disab	19	34	Recently mutations in the SLC16A2 gene coding for the monocarboxylate thyroid hormone transporter 8 MCT8 have been associated with Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS an X linked condition characterized by severe mental retardation dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia	.
rd-disab	19	33	Recently mutations in the SLC16A2 gene coding for the monocarboxylate thyroid hormone transporter 8 MCT8 have been associated with Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS an X linked condition characterized by severe mental retardation dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia	.
rd-disab	19	30	Recently mutations in the SLC16A2 gene coding for the monocarboxylate thyroid hormone transporter 8 MCT8 have been associated with Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS an X linked condition characterized by severe mental retardation dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia	.
rd-disab	19	39	Recently mutations in the SLC16A2 gene coding for the monocarboxylate thyroid hormone transporter 8 MCT8 have been associated with Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS an X linked condition characterized by severe mental retardation dysarthria athetoid movements muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia	.
rd-disab	0	3	Severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans SADDAN is an extremely rare severe skeletal dysplasia characterized by significant developmental delay brain structural abnormalities hearing loss and acanthosis nigricans	.
rd-disab	0	24	Severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans SADDAN is an extremely rare severe skeletal dysplasia characterized by significant developmental delay brain structural abnormalities hearing loss and acanthosis nigricans	.
rd-disab	6	21	Mitofusin 2 gene MFN2 mutations cause Charcot Marie Tooth type 2A CMT2A sometimes complicated by additional features such as optic atrophy hearing loss upper motor neuron signs and cerebral white matter abnormalities	.
rd-disab	6	19	Mitofusin 2 gene MFN2 mutations cause Charcot Marie Tooth type 2A CMT2A sometimes complicated by additional features such as optic atrophy hearing loss upper motor neuron signs and cerebral white matter abnormalities	.
rd-disab	0	21	Alpers disease a neurodegenerative disease usually presents in the first years of life as a progressive encephalopathy with multifocal myoclonic seizures developmental regression cortical blindness and early death	.
rd-disab	0	23	Alpers disease a neurodegenerative disease usually presents in the first years of life as a progressive encephalopathy with multifocal myoclonic seizures developmental regression cortical blindness and early death	.
rd-disab	0	10	CINCA syndrome is also associated with sensory organ damage especially progressive hearing loss and loss of vision	.
rd-disab	0	12	CINCA syndrome is also associated with sensory organ damage especially progressive hearing loss and loss of vision	.
rd-disab	25	16	This study is aimed to conduct a systematic literature review regarding the associations between psychiatric symptoms functional impairments and quality of life in patients with CMT Charcot Marie Tooth	.
rd-disab	0	18	Wolfram syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by juvenile onset diabetes mellitus diabetes insipidus optic nerve atrophy hearing loss and neurodegeneration	.
rd-disab	0	15	Wolfram syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by juvenile onset diabetes mellitus diabetes insipidus optic nerve atrophy hearing loss and neurodegeneration	.
rd-disab	6	6	Pediatric cerebrocerebellar neurodegenerative disorders such as ataxia telangiectasia AT have not been examined in detail for neuropsychologic changes	.
rd-disab	3	0	Hearing loss in Fechtner syndrome develops from the second decade of life and progresses slowly with several episodes of sudden deafness	.
rd-disab	3	19	Hearing loss in Fechtner syndrome develops from the second decade of life and progresses slowly with several episodes of sudden deafness	.
rd-disab	0	12	Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease PMD is a severe hypomyelinating disease characterized by ataxia intellectual disability epilepsy and premature death	.
rd-disab	0	11	Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease PMD is a severe hypomyelinating disease characterized by ataxia intellectual disability epilepsy and premature death	.
rd-disab	46	5	We describe three families with X linked mental retardation two with a deletion of a single amino acid and one with a missense mutation in the proximal domain of the RSK2 RPS6KA3 ribosomal protein S6 kinase 90 kDa polypeptide 3 protein similar to mutations found in Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS	.
rd-disab	20	20	Here we characterize a novel mutation in the linker 1 domain of VCP leading to inclusion body myopathy and or frontotemporal dementia in 3 generations of a Swiss family	.
rd-disab	0	18	Wolfram syndrome WFS a rare neurodegenerative disorder is characterized by early onset insulin dependent diabetes mellitus optic atrophy deafness diabetes insipidus and neurological abnormalities	.
rd-disab	0	16	Wolfram syndrome WFS a rare neurodegenerative disorder is characterized by early onset insulin dependent diabetes mellitus optic atrophy deafness diabetes insipidus and neurological abnormalities	.
rd-disab	5	5	Family caregivers of patients with frontotemporal dementia face unique challenges due to its early onset behavioral symptoms and slow progression of decline	.
rd-disab	24	6	Both patients showed moderate intellectual disability spastic ataxic syndrome hypomyelination and cerebellar atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging MRI and lysosomal storage all typical of Salla disease	.
rd-disab	24	3	Both patients showed moderate intellectual disability spastic ataxic syndrome hypomyelination and cerebellar atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging MRI and lysosomal storage all typical of Salla disease	.
rd-disab	1	4	BACKGROUND Autosomal recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia with thin corpus callosum is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by spastic paraparesis cognitive impairment and peripheral neuropathy	.
rd-disab	1	18	BACKGROUND Autosomal recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia with thin corpus callosum is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by spastic paraparesis cognitive impairment and peripheral neuropathy	.
rd-disab	12	16	The results of our survey suggest that a number of patients with SMA type II have limited jaw opening and chewing and swallowing difficulties	.
rd-disab	12	20	The results of our survey suggest that a number of patients with SMA type II have limited jaw opening and chewing and swallowing difficulties	.
rd-disab	10	18	Clinical and electrophysiological findings are described in three patients with hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy in association with optic atrophy HMSN VI	.
rd-disab	10	18	Clinical and electrophysiological findings are described in three patients with hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy in association with optic atrophy HMSN VI	.
rd-disab	4	7	Considering the comorbidity of CMT with other psychiatric disorders the heterogeneity of the instruments used to evaluate the psychiatric symptoms compromised the ability to compare the studies examined	.
rd-disab	3	0	Hearing impairment in non ocular Stickler syndrome is characterized by non progressive hearing loss present since childhood and mostly mild to moderate in severity	.
rd-disab	3	3	Hearing impairment in non ocular Stickler syndrome is characterized by non progressive hearing loss present since childhood and mostly mild to moderate in severity	.
rd-disab	5	3	Hearing impairment in non ocular Stickler syndrome is characterized by non progressive hearing loss present since childhood and mostly mild to moderate in severity	.
rd-disab	5	0	Hearing impairment in non ocular Stickler syndrome is characterized by non progressive hearing loss present since childhood and mostly mild to moderate in severity	.
rd-disab	0	4	AHDS is characterized by severe intellectual deficiency neuromuscular impairment and brain hypothyroidism	.
rd-disab	17	38	Terminal or interstitial deletion on the short arm of chromosome 5 is associated with a genetic disorder cri du chat syndrome cat cry syndrome which is characterized by a cat like cry in infancy facial dysmorphism microcephaly and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	20	15	CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE C9ORF72 repeat expansions have a primary role in increasing the risk of cognitive impairment in patients with ALS the APOE ε2 allele to a lesser extent also increases the risk of FTD	.
rd-disab	11	16	This constellation of measurements of thyroid function enables quick screening for AHDS in males presenting with cognitive impairment congenital hypotonia and generalized muscle weakness	.
rd-disab	0	11	SCA17 is clinically heterogeneous and typically presents with slowly evolving ataxia dysarthria dementia depression and other movement disorders such as chorea	.
rd-disab	0	12	SCA17 is clinically heterogeneous and typically presents with slowly evolving ataxia dysarthria dementia depression and other movement disorders such as chorea	.
rd-disab	0	16	SCA17 is clinically heterogeneous and typically presents with slowly evolving ataxia dysarthria dementia depression and other movement disorders such as chorea	.
rd-disab	0	10	SCA17 is clinically heterogeneous and typically presents with slowly evolving ataxia dysarthria dementia depression and other movement disorders such as chorea	.
rd-disab	6	13	Deficiency of liver arginase AI causes hyperargininemia OMIM 207800 a disorder characterized by progressive mental impairment growth retardation and spasticity and punctuated by sometimes fatal episodes of hyperammonemia	.
rd-disab	6	16	Deficiency of liver arginase AI causes hyperargininemia OMIM 207800 a disorder characterized by progressive mental impairment growth retardation and spasticity and punctuated by sometimes fatal episodes of hyperammonemia	.
rd-disab	0	14	Deficiency of liver arginase AI causes hyperargininemia OMIM 207800 a disorder characterized by progressive mental impairment growth retardation and spasticity and punctuated by sometimes fatal episodes of hyperammonemia	.
rd-disab	0	16	Deficiency of liver arginase AI causes hyperargininemia OMIM 207800 a disorder characterized by progressive mental impairment growth retardation and spasticity and punctuated by sometimes fatal episodes of hyperammonemia	.
rd-disab	1	4	Typical JBS features include developmental delay mental retardation short stature congenital heart defects thrombocytopenia and characteristic dysmorphic facial features	.
rd-disab	1	6	Typical JBS features include developmental delay mental retardation short stature congenital heart defects thrombocytopenia and characteristic dysmorphic facial features	.
rd-disab	0	13	Cockayne syndrome CS is a rare genetic disorder characterized by a variety of growth and developmental defects photosensitivity cachectic dwarfism hearing loss skeletal abnormalities progressive neurological degeneration and premature aging	.
rd-disab	0	13	Cockayne syndrome CS is a rare genetic disorder characterized by a variety of growth and developmental defects photosensitivity cachectic dwarfism hearing loss skeletal abnormalities progressive neurological degeneration and premature aging	.
rd-disab	0	20	Cockayne syndrome CS is a rare genetic disorder characterized by a variety of growth and developmental defects photosensitivity cachectic dwarfism hearing loss skeletal abnormalities progressive neurological degeneration and premature aging	.
rd-disab	0	20	Cockayne syndrome CS is a rare genetic disorder characterized by a variety of growth and developmental defects photosensitivity cachectic dwarfism hearing loss skeletal abnormalities progressive neurological degeneration and premature aging	.
rd-disab	6	0	Psychomotor retardation is not uncommon in LEOPARD syndrome	.
rd-disab	21	12	PURPOSE To establish the zebrafish platinum mutant as a model for studying vision defects caused by syndromic albinism diseases such as Chediak Higashi syndrome Griscelli syndrome and Hermansky Pudlak syndrome HPS	.
rd-disab	27	12	PURPOSE To establish the zebrafish platinum mutant as a model for studying vision defects caused by syndromic albinism diseases such as Chediak Higashi syndrome Griscelli syndrome and Hermansky Pudlak syndrome HPS	.
rd-disab	14	19	MCT8 mutations cause an X linked syndromic disorder known as Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS that is characterized by severe psychomotor delays abnormal thyroid function and hypomyelinated leukodystrophies	.
rd-disab	10	19	MCT8 mutations cause an X linked syndromic disorder known as Allan Herndon Dudley syndrome AHDS that is characterized by severe psychomotor delays abnormal thyroid function and hypomyelinated leukodystrophies	.
rd-disab	8	13	OBJECTIVE People with velo cardio facial syndrome or 22q11 deletion syndrome 22q11DS have behavioral cognitive and psychiatric problems	.
rd-disab	0	14	Pendred syndrome is one of the most common hereditary determined diseases in patients with syndromic sensorineural hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	1	2	BACKGROUND Frontotemporal dementia is thought to be the second most common form of dementia after Alzheimer s disease	.
rd-disab	1	1	BACKGROUND Frontotemporal dementia is thought to be the second most common form of dementia after Alzheimer s disease	.
rd-disab	0	33	Kearns Sayre syndrome KSS is a mitochondrial disorder characterised by onset before the age of 20years progressive external ophthalmoplegia and pigmentary retinopathy accompanied by either cardiac conduction defects elevated cerebrospinal fluid protein or cerebellar ataxia	.
rd-disab	14	21	An increasing number of studies implicate the GABAAergic system in the pathophysiology of the fragile X syndrome a frequent cause of intellectual disability and autism	.
rd-disab	14	24	An increasing number of studies implicate the GABAAergic system in the pathophysiology of the fragile X syndrome a frequent cause of intellectual disability and autism	.
rd-disab	12	13	There is a behavioral variant and a language variant referred to as primary progressive aphasia	.
rd-disab	13	8	Dendrite and spine abnormalities have been implicated in several psychiatric disorders such as Fragile X syndrome where neurons show a high density of long thin and immature dendritic spines	.
rd-disab	13	6	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE Recurrent strokes and cognitive dysfunction are the major symptoms of cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy CADASIL	.
rd-disab	2	13	In humans alpha mannosidosis results in progressive facial and skeletal abnormalities motor impairment hearing impairment intellectual disability recurrent infections and immune deficiency	.
rd-disab	2	11	In humans alpha mannosidosis results in progressive facial and skeletal abnormalities motor impairment hearing impairment intellectual disability recurrent infections and immune deficiency	.
rd-disab	2	15	In humans alpha mannosidosis results in progressive facial and skeletal abnormalities motor impairment hearing impairment intellectual disability recurrent infections and immune deficiency	.
rd-disab	0	18	Wolfram syndrome 1 WS1 is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy and deafness DIDMOAD syndrome	.
rd-disab	0	15	Wolfram syndrome 1 WS1 is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy and deafness DIDMOAD syndrome	.
rd-disab	3	5	Serious manifestations of CRS include deafness cataracts cardiac defects mental retardation and death	.
rd-disab	3	9	Serious manifestations of CRS include deafness cataracts cardiac defects mental retardation and death	.
rd-disab	17	22	Loss of function mutations in the RPS6KA3 gene which encodes the RSK2 protein have been implicated in Coffin Lowry Syndrome CLS an X linked mental retardation disorder associated with cognitive deficits and behavioral impairments	.
rd-disab	17	29	Loss of function mutations in the RPS6KA3 gene which encodes the RSK2 protein have been implicated in Coffin Lowry Syndrome CLS an X linked mental retardation disorder associated with cognitive deficits and behavioral impairments	.
rd-disab	17	32	Loss of function mutations in the RPS6KA3 gene which encodes the RSK2 protein have been implicated in Coffin Lowry Syndrome CLS an X linked mental retardation disorder associated with cognitive deficits and behavioral impairments	.
rd-disab	12	12	Advances in clinical imaging and molecular characterisation have increased the accuracy of frontotemporal dementia diagnosis thus allowing for the accurate differentiation of these syndromes from psychiatric disorders	.
rd-disab	11	8	CONCLUSION These three cases confirm the association of optic atrophy with cblC disease	.
rd-disab	0	18	Jervell and Lange Nielsen syndrome is important because of its potential association with sudden death in children with congenital sensorineural deafness	.
rd-disab	1	10	Untreated PKU is associated with an abnormal phenotype which includes growth failure seizures global developmental delay and severe intellectual impairment	.
rd-disab	1	17	Untreated PKU is associated with an abnormal phenotype which includes growth failure seizures global developmental delay and severe intellectual impairment	.
rd-disab	1	13	Untreated PKU is associated with an abnormal phenotype which includes growth failure seizures global developmental delay and severe intellectual impairment	.
rd-disab	14	0	Developmental regression and refractory focal motor or myoclonic seizures are consistent clinical features of Alpers syndrome with polymerase mutations	.
rd-disab	0	9	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by an interstitial deletion on the short arm of chromosome 17 involving the band p11 2	.
rd-disab	16	13	Our study suggested that low level of serum uric acid was associated with cognitive deficits in MSA	.
rd-disab	18	23	In order to refine the description of the motor phenotype we prospectively studied 16 consecutive pediatric and adult GA1 patients focusing on the movement disorders and their time course	.
rd-disab	0	19	Alpha mannosidosis is characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability ID moderate to severe neurosensory hearing loss frequent infections psychomotor disturbances and skeletal dysmorphism	.
rd-disab	0	7	Alpha mannosidosis is characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability ID moderate to severe neurosensory hearing loss frequent infections psychomotor disturbances and skeletal dysmorphism	.
rd-disab	0	5	Alpha mannosidosis is characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability ID moderate to severe neurosensory hearing loss frequent infections psychomotor disturbances and skeletal dysmorphism	.
rd-disab	1	15	INTRODUCTION Sjogren Larsson syndrome SLS is characterized by the triad of ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
rd-disab	1	18	INTRODUCTION Sjogren Larsson syndrome SLS is characterized by the triad of ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
rd-disab	1	12	INTRODUCTION Sjogren Larsson syndrome SLS is characterized by the triad of ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
rd-disab	5	13	The major manifestations of the Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome are developmental delay short stature mental impairment and epilepsy	.
rd-disab	5	9	The major manifestations of the Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome are developmental delay short stature mental impairment and epilepsy	.
rd-disab	0	11	Maternal phenylketonuria MPKU is a syndrome including cardiovascular malformations CVMs microcephaly intellectual impairment and small size for gestational age caused by in utero exposure to elevated serum phenylalanine Phe due to PKU in the mother	.
rd-disab	0	14	Monosomy 1p36 is a common subtelomeric microdeletion syndrome characterized by craniofacial dysmorphisms developmental delay mental retardation hypotonia epilepsy cardiovascular complications and hearing impairment deleted regions have been mapped within 10 0 Mb from the telomere in most documented cases	.
rd-disab	0	12	Monosomy 1p36 is a common subtelomeric microdeletion syndrome characterized by craniofacial dysmorphisms developmental delay mental retardation hypotonia epilepsy cardiovascular complications and hearing impairment deleted regions have been mapped within 10 0 Mb from the telomere in most documented cases	.
rd-disab	0	21	Monosomy 1p36 is a common subtelomeric microdeletion syndrome characterized by craniofacial dysmorphisms developmental delay mental retardation hypotonia epilepsy cardiovascular complications and hearing impairment deleted regions have been mapped within 10 0 Mb from the telomere in most documented cases	.
rd-disab	16	10	We report a 14 year old girl with mental retardation behavioral abnormalities and facial dysmorphism with SMS diagnosis confirmed by cytogenetic analysis and in situ hydridization FISH	.
rd-disab	16	8	We report a 14 year old girl with mental retardation behavioral abnormalities and facial dysmorphism with SMS diagnosis confirmed by cytogenetic analysis and in situ hydridization FISH	.
rd-disab	0	7	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 is a rare autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia ADCA	.
rd-disab	0	0	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 is a rare autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia ADCA	.
rd-disab	7	0	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 is a rare autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia ADCA	.
rd-disab	4	20	This condition termed the Allan Herndon syndrome appears distinct from other X linked disorders having mental retardation muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia	.
rd-disab	4	15	This condition termed the Allan Herndon syndrome appears distinct from other X linked disorders having mental retardation muscle hypoplasia and spastic paraplegia	.
rd-disab	0	6	Pendred syndrome is the most frequent congenital deafness syndrome	.
rd-disab	3	7	Classically patients with CJD present with rapidly progressive cognitive decline ataxia and myoclonus	.
rd-disab	3	10	Classically patients with CJD present with rapidly progressive cognitive decline ataxia and myoclonus	.
rd-disab	0	24	Type I autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia ADCA is a type of spinocerebellar ataxia SCA characterized by ataxia with other neurological signs including oculomotor disturbances cognitive deficits pyramidal and extrapyramidal dysfunction bulbar spinal and peripheral nervous system involvement	.
rd-disab	0	22	Type I autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia ADCA is a type of spinocerebellar ataxia SCA characterized by ataxia with other neurological signs including oculomotor disturbances cognitive deficits pyramidal and extrapyramidal dysfunction bulbar spinal and peripheral nervous system involvement	.
rd-disab	0	5	Type I autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia ADCA is a type of spinocerebellar ataxia SCA characterized by ataxia with other neurological signs including oculomotor disturbances cognitive deficits pyramidal and extrapyramidal dysfunction bulbar spinal and peripheral nervous system involvement	.
rd-disab	0	11	Type I autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia ADCA is a type of spinocerebellar ataxia SCA characterized by ataxia with other neurological signs including oculomotor disturbances cognitive deficits pyramidal and extrapyramidal dysfunction bulbar spinal and peripheral nervous system involvement	.
rd-disab	3	14	Usually late onset NKH only manifests mild mental deterioration character change seizure ataxia or spastic paraparesis which sometimes makes difficulty in differentiating this disease from other hereditary cerebellar ataxia or spastic paraparesis	.
rd-disab	3	12	Usually late onset NKH only manifests mild mental deterioration character change seizure ataxia or spastic paraparesis which sometimes makes difficulty in differentiating this disease from other hereditary cerebellar ataxia or spastic paraparesis	.
rd-disab	3	6	Usually late onset NKH only manifests mild mental deterioration character change seizure ataxia or spastic paraparesis which sometimes makes difficulty in differentiating this disease from other hereditary cerebellar ataxia or spastic paraparesis	.
rd-disab	2	19	Conclusively most bvFTD patients fulfill current diagnostic criteria at first admission whereas a relatively small group is characterized by mild behavioral and or cognitive abnormalities in spite of frontotemporal gray matter atrophy	.
rd-disab	12	6	OBJECTIVE To illustrate the spectrum of behavioral and psychiatric abnormalities associated with del22q11 and the subtle nature of its associated physical findings	.
rd-disab	6	10	RESULTS Majority of the patients with MSUD had developmental delay intellectual disability 88 speech delay 69 and seizures 65	.
rd-disab	6	13	RESULTS Majority of the patients with MSUD had developmental delay intellectual disability 88 speech delay 69 and seizures 65	.
rd-disab	6	8	RESULTS Majority of the patients with MSUD had developmental delay intellectual disability 88 speech delay 69 and seizures 65	.
rd-disab	0	10	Fragile X syndrome is the most common inherited form of intellectual disability and the leading genetic cause of autism	.
rd-disab	0	18	Fragile X syndrome is the most common inherited form of intellectual disability and the leading genetic cause of autism	.
rd-disab	22	12	Genetic analysis of the GFAP gene is recommended for all patients with late onset progressive ataxia and suspected of having adult onset Alexander disease on the basis of MRI findings	.
rd-disab	4	4	Molecular genetic analysis of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia with retinal degeneration ADCA type II caused by CAG triplet repeat expansion	.
rd-disab	9	26	Neuralgic amyotrophy also known as Parsonage Turner syndrome or brachial plexus neuritis is a distinct and painful peripheral neuropathy that causes episodes of multifocal paresis and sensory loss in a brachial plexus distribution with concomitant involvement of other PNS structures such as the lumbosacral plexus or phrenic nerve in a large number of patients	.
rd-disab	9	23	Neuralgic amyotrophy also known as Parsonage Turner syndrome or brachial plexus neuritis is a distinct and painful peripheral neuropathy that causes episodes of multifocal paresis and sensory loss in a brachial plexus distribution with concomitant involvement of other PNS structures such as the lumbosacral plexus or phrenic nerve in a large number of patients	.
rd-disab	0	26	Neuralgic amyotrophy also known as Parsonage Turner syndrome or brachial plexus neuritis is a distinct and painful peripheral neuropathy that causes episodes of multifocal paresis and sensory loss in a brachial plexus distribution with concomitant involvement of other PNS structures such as the lumbosacral plexus or phrenic nerve in a large number of patients	.
rd-disab	0	23	Neuralgic amyotrophy also known as Parsonage Turner syndrome or brachial plexus neuritis is a distinct and painful peripheral neuropathy that causes episodes of multifocal paresis and sensory loss in a brachial plexus distribution with concomitant involvement of other PNS structures such as the lumbosacral plexus or phrenic nerve in a large number of patients	.
rd-disab	8	4	We report a new visual problem associated with DRPLA optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	8	9	We report a new visual problem associated with DRPLA optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	7	13	Therefore even without any obvious syndromic features MWS can be the cause of sensorineural hearing impairment especially when combined with mild skin rash and musculoskeletal symptoms	.
rd-disab	0	28	18p deletion syndrome can be easily missed in a clinical setting as the facial features though typical can be overlooked and the other features including growth retardation and learning disability are nonspecific	.
rd-disab	0	25	18p deletion syndrome can be easily missed in a clinical setting as the facial features though typical can be overlooked and the other features including growth retardation and learning disability are nonspecific	.
rd-disab	0	5	Angelman syndrome AS is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by a number of neurological problems including developmental delay movement disorders and epilepsy	.
rd-disab	0	17	Angelman syndrome AS is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by a number of neurological problems including developmental delay movement disorders and epilepsy	.
rd-disab	0	15	Angelman syndrome AS is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by a number of neurological problems including developmental delay movement disorders and epilepsy	.
rd-disab	6	33	This review confirms that patients with TSC2 mutations considered as a group usually present a more severe phenotype characterized by higher number of tubers earlier age at seizure onset and higher prevalence of intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	16	28	We report on the case of a 17 year old boy with clinical features compatible with Lowry Wood syndrome microcephaly short stature multiple epiphyseal dysplasia tapetoretinal degeneration and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	16	25	We report on the case of a 17 year old boy with clinical features compatible with Lowry Wood syndrome microcephaly short stature multiple epiphyseal dysplasia tapetoretinal degeneration and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	0	18	Fraser syndrome FS is a rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder characterized by cryptophthalmos laryngeal defects and oral clefting mental retardation syndactyly and urogenital defects	.
rd-disab	13	21	Chromosome testing confirmed for both a 17p11 2 interstitial microdeletion commonly seen in Smith Magenis syndrome SMS which is characterized by developmental delay cognitive impairment and facial and behavioral phenotype	.
rd-disab	13	23	Chromosome testing confirmed for both a 17p11 2 interstitial microdeletion commonly seen in Smith Magenis syndrome SMS which is characterized by developmental delay cognitive impairment and facial and behavioral phenotype	.
rd-disab	21	9	RESULTS A 46 year old woman presented with recently reduced central vision and clinical findings of characteristic yellow flecks consistent with Stargardt disease	.
rd-disab	19	27	We report on a female patient with an approximately 10 Mb interstitial deletion with many of the features of Jacobsen syndrome A congenital heart defect dysmorphic features developmental delay and Paris Trousseau syndrome	.
rd-disab	15	41	BACKGROUND Histopathological examinations and computed tomographic scans of the temporal bone in patients with the CHARGE association a malformative syndrome that includes coloboma heart disease choanal atresia retarded development genital hypoplasia and ear anomalies including hypoplasia of the external ear and hearing loss have shown an absence of semicircular canals and a Mondini form of cochlear dysplasia	.
rd-disab	15	27	BACKGROUND Histopathological examinations and computed tomographic scans of the temporal bone in patients with the CHARGE association a malformative syndrome that includes coloboma heart disease choanal atresia retarded development genital hypoplasia and ear anomalies including hypoplasia of the external ear and hearing loss have shown an absence of semicircular canals and a Mondini form of cochlear dysplasia	.
rd-disab	0	13	Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease PMD MIM#312080 is a rare X linked leukodystrophy presenting with motor developmental delay associated with spasticity and nystagmus	.
rd-disab	0	15	Crouzon syndrome should be managed as early as possible as it results in airway obstruction decreased vision mental retardation and poor cosmetic appearance	.
rd-disab	0	17	Crouzon syndrome should be managed as early as possible as it results in airway obstruction decreased vision mental retardation and poor cosmetic appearance	.
rd-disab	0	12	Coffin Lowry Syndrome CLS is an X linked genetic disorder associated with cognitive and behavioural impairments	.
rd-disab	0	9	Alström syndrome is a clinically complex disorder characterized by progressive degeneration of sensory functions resulting in visual and audiological impairment as well as metabolic disturbances	.
rd-disab	0	16	Alström syndrome is a clinically complex disorder characterized by progressive degeneration of sensory functions resulting in visual and audiological impairment as well as metabolic disturbances	.
rd-disab	1	9	Background Congenital hypothyroidism is the most common reason of mental retardation and normal neurological development can be provided by early and effective treatment	.
rd-disab	0	12	HHH syndrome was diagnosed in a 2 year old Palestinian boy with developmental delay and seizures and subsequently in his 13 year old brother with developmental delay	.
rd-disab	0	12	HHH syndrome was diagnosed in a 2 year old Palestinian boy with developmental delay and seizures and subsequently in his 13 year old brother with developmental delay	.
rd-disab	7	0	Hearing impairment is common in individuals with branchio oculo facial BOF syndrome	.
rd-disab	51	51	Late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia appear to belong to the same clinical and molecular continuum and should be considered together as delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia As the most frequently inherited ataxia Friedreich s ataxia should be considered facing compatible pictures including atypical phenotypes spastic ataxia retained reflexes lack of dysarthria and lack of extraneurological signs delayed disease onset even after 60 years of age and or slow disease progression	.
rd-disab	51	2	Late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia appear to belong to the same clinical and molecular continuum and should be considered together as delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia As the most frequently inherited ataxia Friedreich s ataxia should be considered facing compatible pictures including atypical phenotypes spastic ataxia retained reflexes lack of dysarthria and lack of extraneurological signs delayed disease onset even after 60 years of age and or slow disease progression	.
rd-disab	0	24	1p36 deletion monosomy 1p36 is one of the most common terminal deletions observed in humans characterized by special facial features mental retardation heart defects development delay and epilepsy	.
rd-disab	0	20	1p36 deletion monosomy 1p36 is one of the most common terminal deletions observed in humans characterized by special facial features mental retardation heart defects development delay and epilepsy	.
rd-disab	7	12	Speech and language development in children with CCS is notable for a reduced receptive vocabulary and a profound deficit in expressive language	.
rd-disab	7	17	Speech and language development in children with CCS is notable for a reduced receptive vocabulary and a profound deficit in expressive language	.
rd-disab	2	25	CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS Coffin Siris syndrome CSS is classically characterized by aplasia or hypoplasia of the distal phalanx or nail of the fifth and additional digits developmental or cognitive delay of varying degree distinctive facial features hypotonia hirutism hypertrichosis and sparse scalp hair	.
rd-disab	0	12	Trisomy 18 or Edwards syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly associated with mild to severe intellectual disabilities and multiple congenital anomalies	.
rd-disab	1	8	The Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS is characterized by severe pre and postnatal growth retardation specific pattern of dysmorphisms and severe developmental delay	.
rd-disab	1	8	The Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS is characterized by severe pre and postnatal growth retardation specific pattern of dysmorphisms and severe developmental delay	.
rd-disab	1	28	BACKGROUND Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy CADASIL is an inherited cerebral small vessel disease clinically characterized by migraine recurrent transient ischemic attacks or strokes psychiatric disorders and cognitive decline	.
rd-disab	1	31	BACKGROUND Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy CADASIL is an inherited cerebral small vessel disease clinically characterized by migraine recurrent transient ischemic attacks or strokes psychiatric disorders and cognitive decline	.
rd-disab	10	15	Recently mutations in SOX10 a well known causative gene of Waardenburg syndrome WS characterized by deafness skin hair iris hypopigmentation Hirschsprung disease and neurological defects have been identified in a few patients with KS and deafness	.
rd-disab	20	15	Recently mutations in SOX10 a well known causative gene of Waardenburg syndrome WS characterized by deafness skin hair iris hypopigmentation Hirschsprung disease and neurological defects have been identified in a few patients with KS and deafness	.
rd-disab	0	7	Möbius syndrome is a congenital disorder with facial and abducens palsy	.
rd-disab	0	5	Rett syndrome RS is an X linked dominant neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in MECP2 Xq28 and characterized by normal development until 612 months of age followed by regression with loss of acquired skills gradual onset of microcephaly stereotypic hand movements and psychomotor delay	.
rd-disab	0	42	Rett syndrome RS is an X linked dominant neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in MECP2 Xq28 and characterized by normal development until 612 months of age followed by regression with loss of acquired skills gradual onset of microcephaly stereotypic hand movements and psychomotor delay	.
rd-disab	8	5	The most striking difference between hearing loss in Fechtner syndrome and that in Alport s syndrome was that the vast majority of hearing disorders in the latter occur in male patients which is not the case in Fechtner syndrome	.
rd-disab	13	5	The most striking difference between hearing loss in Fechtner syndrome and that in Alport s syndrome was that the vast majority of hearing disorders in the latter occur in male patients which is not the case in Fechtner syndrome	.
rd-disab	13	5	The most striking difference between hearing loss in Fechtner syndrome and that in Alport s syndrome was that the vast majority of hearing disorders in the latter occur in male patients which is not the case in Fechtner syndrome	.
rd-disab	17	12	However current evidence suggests that anakinra has limited effectiveness in reversing the sensorineural hearing loss seen in CINCA syndrome	.
rd-disab	1	13	BACKGROUND Pendred syndrome is an autosomal recessive disease that is classically characterised by sensorineural hearing loss and enlargement of the thyroid gland	.
rd-disab	0	5	Aicardi syndrome AS is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by the triad of corpus callosum agenesis chorioretinal lacunae and infantile spasms	.
rd-disab	2	24	Individuals with Costello syndrome usually present with severe feeding difficulties in infancy short stature coarse facial features increased tumor risks cardiac and neurological complications intellectual disability and orthopedic complications	.
rd-disab	0	12	Cri du chat is a rare congenital syndrome characterized by intellectual disability severe speech developmental delay dysmorphic features and additional syndromic findings	.
rd-disab	0	10	Cri du chat is a rare congenital syndrome characterized by intellectual disability severe speech developmental delay dysmorphic features and additional syndromic findings	.
rd-disab	0	4	Hirschsprung disease is a developmental disorder resulting from the arrest of the craniocaudal migration of enteric neurons from the neural crest along gastrointestinal segments of variable length see Behrman Nelson textbook of pediatrics 1992 954 956	.
rd-disab	0	0	Autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias ADCAs are a complex group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive degeneration of the cerebellum brain stem and spinal cord	.
rd-disab	0	10	Congenital rubella syndrome CRS is a global cause of preventable hearing impairment blindness and intellectual impairment	.
rd-disab	0	12	Congenital rubella syndrome CRS is a global cause of preventable hearing impairment blindness and intellectual impairment	.
rd-disab	0	14	Congenital rubella syndrome CRS is a global cause of preventable hearing impairment blindness and intellectual impairment	.
rd-disab	0	12	Fragile X syndrome FXS is characterized by immature dendritic spine architectures and cognitive impairment	.
rd-disab	11	11	To assess the role of oxidative stress in lipid peroxidation in Friedreich ataxia we used the novel approach of treating Friedreich ataxia cell models with polyunsaturated fatty acids PUFAs deuterated at bis allylic sites	.
rd-disab	11	11	To assess the role of oxidative stress in lipid peroxidation in Friedreich ataxia we used the novel approach of treating Friedreich ataxia cell models with polyunsaturated fatty acids PUFAs deuterated at bis allylic sites	.
rd-disab	32	15	We report herein a five year old girl with severe ophthalmological findings facial dysmorphism and psychomotor retardation with normal platelet function in whom a de novo 11q23 deletion was detected suggesting that distal 11q monosomy should be kept in mind in patients presenting with dysmorphic facial features and psychomotor retardation even in the absence of hematological findings	.
rd-disab	2	10	Interstitial chromosome 15q11 q13 duplications are associated with developmental delay behavioral problems and additional manifestations including epilepsy	.
rd-disab	2	8	Interstitial chromosome 15q11 q13 duplications are associated with developmental delay behavioral problems and additional manifestations including epilepsy	.
rd-disab	10	23	Among the unusual patients two patients had clinical features of charge syndrome including choanal atresia coloboma cardiac defects genitourinary anomaly 1 2 and severe intellectual disability two patients had craniosynostosis and three patients had mild intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	3	15	In the 41 CS type 1 patients seven findings i e failure to thrive photosensitivity deafness characteristic facial appearance of CS sunken eyes foot joint contracture intellectual disability and basal ganglia calcification on computed tomography CT were observed in >90 of patients	.
rd-disab	3	26	In the 41 CS type 1 patients seven findings i e failure to thrive photosensitivity deafness characteristic facial appearance of CS sunken eyes foot joint contracture intellectual disability and basal ganglia calcification on computed tomography CT were observed in >90 of patients	.
rd-disab	5	8	RESULTS All three patients with cblC disease exhibited bilateral optic atrophy with decreased visual acuity	.
rd-disab	0	17	West syndrome WS an age dependent epileptic encephalopathy is identified as a triad of infantile spasms IS psychomotor retardation and a specific EEG pattern known as hypsarrhythmia	.
rd-disab	0	35	Wolfram syndrome WS also known as DIDMOAD Diabetes Insipidus Diabetes Mellitus Optic Atrophy and Deafness is a rare autosomal recessive syndrome 1 770 000 in the United Kingdom characterised by juvenile onset of diabetes mellitus optic nerve atrophy diabetes insipidus sensorineural deafness renal tract and neurological abnormalities and primary gonadal atrophy	.
rd-disab	0	40	Wolfram syndrome WS also known as DIDMOAD Diabetes Insipidus Diabetes Mellitus Optic Atrophy and Deafness is a rare autosomal recessive syndrome 1 770 000 in the United Kingdom characterised by juvenile onset of diabetes mellitus optic nerve atrophy diabetes insipidus sensorineural deafness renal tract and neurological abnormalities and primary gonadal atrophy	.
rd-disab	0	13	MAE frequently shows the course of an epileptic encephalopathy and may result in permanent cognitive impairment	.
rd-disab	0	9	Kabuki Niikawa Kuroki syndrome is associated with growth retardation developmental delay congenital heart disease cleft palate and characteristic facial features	.
rd-disab	0	7	Kabuki Niikawa Kuroki syndrome is associated with growth retardation developmental delay congenital heart disease cleft palate and characteristic facial features	.
rd-disab	4	0	Impaired phonological processing in fragile X syndrome interferes with the development of language skills	.
rd-disab	7	15	In spite of being a rare disorder GS has to be considered in children with developmental delay and muscle weakness	.
rd-disab	9	27	Taken together with previous reports this case suggests that 4H syndrome can be regarded as a spectrum disorder the cardinal signs of which may be central hypomyelination ataxia hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and hypodontia	.
rd-disab	23	0	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive hereditary spinocerebellar disorder characterized by progressive limb and gait ataxia due to proprioceptive loss often complicated by cardiomyopathy diabetes and skeletal deformities	.
rd-disab	0	0	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive hereditary spinocerebellar disorder characterized by progressive limb and gait ataxia due to proprioceptive loss often complicated by cardiomyopathy diabetes and skeletal deformities	.
rd-disab	0	14	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive hereditary spinocerebellar disorder characterized by progressive limb and gait ataxia due to proprioceptive loss often complicated by cardiomyopathy diabetes and skeletal deformities	.
rd-disab	3	11	Children with a CHARGE association have many medical problems and therefore autistic behaviour can easily be overlooked	.
rd-disab	0	5	Coffin Lowry syndrome is an X linked mental retardation disorder with dysmorphism caused by mutation of the ribosomal S6 kinase RSK2 gene	.
rd-disab	26	6	Both twins displayed disordered speech development impairments in social interaction and stereotyped behaviors consistent with autism spectrum disorder common in the vast majority of cases of SMS	.
rd-disab	26	3	Both twins displayed disordered speech development impairments in social interaction and stereotyped behaviors consistent with autism spectrum disorder common in the vast majority of cases of SMS	.
rd-disab	26	15	Both twins displayed disordered speech development impairments in social interaction and stereotyped behaviors consistent with autism spectrum disorder common in the vast majority of cases of SMS	.
rd-disab	5	0	Intellectual disability is uncommon in TRPS I and if present usually mild	.
rd-disab	0	12	Trisomy 18 is frequently associated with neurologic abnormalities including hypotonia in infancy mental retardation central apnea and epilepsy	.
rd-disab	0	7	WAGR Wilms tumour Aniridia Genitourinary anomalies and mental Retardation syndrome is caused by 11p13 deletions of variable size near the BDNF locus and can serve as a model for studying human BDNF haploinsufficiency +	.
rd-disab	1	10	BACKGROUND Choroideremia is an X linked recessive disorder characterized by vision loss with progressive atrophy of the retinal photoreceptors retinal pigment epithelium RPE and choriocapillaris	.
rd-disab	9	14	Mutations in the inositol polyphosphate 5 phosphatase OCRL1 cause Lowe Syndrome leading to cataracts mental retardation and renal failure	.
rd-disab	17	20	Virtual reality is a technology that holds great promise for the evaluation and rehabilitation of patients with bvFTD and other non Alzheimer dementias and preliminary evidence suggests that this technology is feasible in patients with bvFTD	.
rd-disab	17	20	Virtual reality is a technology that holds great promise for the evaluation and rehabilitation of patients with bvFTD and other non Alzheimer dementias and preliminary evidence suggests that this technology is feasible in patients with bvFTD	.
rd-disab	30	1	Other mental retardation disorders are also linked to the disruption of genes involved in epigenetic mechanisms such disorders include alpha thalassaemia mental retardation X linked syndrome Rubinstein Taybi syndrome and Coffin Lowry syndrome	.
rd-disab	0	14	Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS is a contiguous gene deletion syndrome associated with growth retardation developmental disabilities epileptic seizures and distinct facial features resulting from a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 4	.
rd-disab	0	12	Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS is a contiguous gene deletion syndrome associated with growth retardation developmental disabilities epileptic seizures and distinct facial features resulting from a deletion of the short arm of chromosome 4	.
rd-disab	2	10	Individuals with NF1 have an increased incidence of learning disabilities attention deficits and autism spectrum disorders	.
rd-disab	2	13	Individuals with NF1 have an increased incidence of learning disabilities attention deficits and autism spectrum disorders	.
rd-disab	2	8	Individuals with NF1 have an increased incidence of learning disabilities attention deficits and autism spectrum disorders	.
rd-disab	12	19	Hence this study was undertaken to review the details of patients with TS with respect to the pattern of cognitive psychiatric and motor dysfunction	.
rd-disab	0	16	Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease PMD is a rare X linked recessive hypomyelination disorder characterized by nystagmus ataxia impaired motor development and progressive spasticity	.
rd-disab	0	15	Pelizaeus Merzbacher disease PMD is a rare X linked recessive hypomyelination disorder characterized by nystagmus ataxia impaired motor development and progressive spasticity	.
rd-disab	11	11	Our results are consistent with a role for lipid peroxidation in Friedreich ataxia pathology and suggest that the novel approach of oral delivery of isotope reinforced PUFAs may have therapeutic potential in Friedreich ataxia and other disorders involving oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation	.
rd-disab	11	11	Our results are consistent with a role for lipid peroxidation in Friedreich ataxia pathology and suggest that the novel approach of oral delivery of isotope reinforced PUFAs may have therapeutic potential in Friedreich ataxia and other disorders involving oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation	.
rd-disab	5	23	The duplication belongs to the 15q11q13 duplication syndrome OMIM 608636 which when maternally derived is characterised by neuro behavioural disorders like autism hypotonia cognitive deficit language delay and epilepsy	.
rd-disab	5	25	The duplication belongs to the 15q11q13 duplication syndrome OMIM 608636 which when maternally derived is characterised by neuro behavioural disorders like autism hypotonia cognitive deficit language delay and epilepsy	.
rd-disab	5	21	The duplication belongs to the 15q11q13 duplication syndrome OMIM 608636 which when maternally derived is characterised by neuro behavioural disorders like autism hypotonia cognitive deficit language delay and epilepsy	.
rd-disab	8	1	CONCLUSIONS Hearing loss represents a characteristic feature of FSHD patients with a large 4q35 deletion	.
rd-disab	9	6	METHODS We examined the association of autism traits with NF1 NS CS and CFC comparing affected probands with unaffected sibling controls and subjects with idiopathic ASDs using the qualitative Social Communication Questionnaire SCQ and the quantitative Social Responsiveness Scale SRS	.
rd-disab	10	6	METHODS We examined the association of autism traits with NF1 NS CS and CFC comparing affected probands with unaffected sibling controls and subjects with idiopathic ASDs using the qualitative Social Communication Questionnaire SCQ and the quantitative Social Responsiveness Scale SRS	.
rd-disab	0	31	Costello syndrome is a type of RASopathy mapped to HRAS gene in chromosome 11 characterized by prenatal overgrowth postnatal failure to thrive classic facial gestalt and multisystem involvement including cardiomyopathy and intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	4	1	The hearing loss in Townes Brocks syndrome is predominantly sensorineural affects high frequency thresholds more than low frequency thresholds and has a variable usually small conductive component	.
rd-disab	0	11	Mucopolysaccharidosis type III MPS III is characterized by progressive neurological deterioration behavioral abnormalities a relatively mild somatic phenotype and early mortality	.
rd-disab	0	0	Frontotemporal dementia is a highly heritable neurodegenerative disorder	.
rd-disab	0	20	Familial Danish Dementia FDD is an autosomal disease which is distinguished by gradual loss of vision deafness progressive ataxia and dementia	.
rd-disab	0	16	Familial Danish Dementia FDD is an autosomal disease which is distinguished by gradual loss of vision deafness progressive ataxia and dementia	.
rd-disab	0	17	Familial Danish Dementia FDD is an autosomal disease which is distinguished by gradual loss of vision deafness progressive ataxia and dementia	.
rd-disab	0	0	Familial Danish Dementia FDD is an autosomal disease which is distinguished by gradual loss of vision deafness progressive ataxia and dementia	.
rd-disab	0	12	Familial Danish Dementia FDD is an autosomal disease which is distinguished by gradual loss of vision deafness progressive ataxia and dementia	.
rd-disab	1	12	SIGNIFICANCE Fragile X Syndrome FXS is the leading known genetic cause of autism spectrum disorders	.
rd-disab	0	10	Type III 3 methylglutaconic aciduria MGA MIM 258501 consists of early bilateral optic atrophy later development of spasticity extrapyramidal dysfunction and occasionally cognitive deficits and urinary excretion of 3 methylglutaconic acid and 3 methylglutaric acid	.
rd-disab	0	22	Type III 3 methylglutaconic aciduria MGA MIM 258501 consists of early bilateral optic atrophy later development of spasticity extrapyramidal dysfunction and occasionally cognitive deficits and urinary excretion of 3 methylglutaconic acid and 3 methylglutaric acid	.
rd-disab	14	20	CONCLUSIONS This report expands the ophthalmological phenotype of the late onset neurodegenerative form of CHS to include optic neuropathy with progressive vision loss even in the absence of ocular albinism and abnormal prominence of the interdigitation zone between cone outer segment tips and apical processes of retinal pigment epithelium cells on macular OCT	.
rd-disab	1	12	PURPOSE Wolfram syndrome WS or diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy and deafness DIDMOAD OMIM 222300 is an inherited neurodegenerative disease characterized by diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy as the 2 major criteria followed later in life by deafness diabetes insipidus and various signs of neurologic impairment	.
rd-disab	1	9	PURPOSE Wolfram syndrome WS or diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy and deafness DIDMOAD OMIM 222300 is an inherited neurodegenerative disease characterized by diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy as the 2 major criteria followed later in life by deafness diabetes insipidus and various signs of neurologic impairment	.
rd-disab	1	9	PURPOSE Wolfram syndrome WS or diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy and deafness DIDMOAD OMIM 222300 is an inherited neurodegenerative disease characterized by diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy as the 2 major criteria followed later in life by deafness diabetes insipidus and various signs of neurologic impairment	.
rd-disab	1	12	PURPOSE Wolfram syndrome WS or diabetes insipidus diabetes mellitus optic atrophy and deafness DIDMOAD OMIM 222300 is an inherited neurodegenerative disease characterized by diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy as the 2 major criteria followed later in life by deafness diabetes insipidus and various signs of neurologic impairment	.
rd-disab	1	15	BACKGROUND Cornelia de Lange syndrome CdLS is a dominantly inherited disorder characterized by facial dysmorphism growth and cognitive impairment limb malformations and multiple organ involvement	.
rd-disab	18	25	Germline missense mutations of PTPN11 are found in more than half of patients with Noonan syndrome NS and LEOPARD syndrome LS both of which are congenital developmental disorders with multiple common symptoms	.
rd-disab	14	25	Germline missense mutations of PTPN11 are found in more than half of patients with Noonan syndrome NS and LEOPARD syndrome LS both of which are congenital developmental disorders with multiple common symptoms	.
rd-disab	32	27	Further we describe discoveries from these models that have uncovered defects in the regulation of Ras activity cAMP generation and dopamine homeostasis as key mechanisms important for cognitive dysfunction in children with NF1	.
rd-disab	8	16	When cardinal features are lacking the diagnosis of Cockayne syndrome should be considered when presented with growth retardation microcephaly and one of the suggesting features such as enophthalmia limb ataxia abnormal auditory evoked responses or increased ventricular size on cerebral imaging	.
rd-disab	8	28	When cardinal features are lacking the diagnosis of Cockayne syndrome should be considered when presented with growth retardation microcephaly and one of the suggesting features such as enophthalmia limb ataxia abnormal auditory evoked responses or increased ventricular size on cerebral imaging	.
rd-disab	13	5	We present a boy with developmental delay and multiple anomalies consistent with the supernumerary der 22 syndrome	.
rd-disab	5	5	Findings from studies of other genetic dementias have shown neuroimaging and cognitive changes before symptoms onset and we aimed to identify whether such changes could be shown in frontotemporal dementia	.
rd-disab	28	28	Findings from studies of other genetic dementias have shown neuroimaging and cognitive changes before symptoms onset and we aimed to identify whether such changes could be shown in frontotemporal dementia	.
rd-disab	22	20	Patients with mutations in KCNQ1 may show only the cardiac defect Romano Ward syndrome or RWS or may also have severe deafness Jervell and Lange Nielsen syndrome or JLNS	.
rd-disab	8	8	As the understanding of the molecular basis for frontotemporal dementia improves rational therapies are beginning to emerge	.
rd-disab	0	10	Norrie disease is an X linked recessive disorder characterized by congenital blindness and in some cases mental retardation and deafness	.
rd-disab	0	6	Pitt Hopkins syndrome is characterized by marked intellectual impairment hyperventilation episodes and dysmorphic facial features	.
rd-disab	1	8	PURPOSE Behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD is a non Alzheimer dementia characterized by difficulty in documenting social emotional changes	.
rd-disab	1	1	PURPOSE Behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD is a non Alzheimer dementia characterized by difficulty in documenting social emotional changes	.
rd-disab	2	12	Moreover clinical FTD manifestations may be associated with TDP 43 proteolysis since impaired behaviors in TBI rats were reminiscent of those in humans with FTD	.
rd-disab	1	9	The CHARGE association was described as a cluster of multiple congenital defects by Pagon et al in 1981	.
rd-disab	2	16	Patients with SLOS typically exhibit a number of severe behavioral deficits and many are diagnosed with autistic spectrum disorder	.
rd-disab	2	8	Patients with SLOS typically exhibit a number of severe behavioral deficits and many are diagnosed with autistic spectrum disorder	.
rd-disab	0	29	Johanson Blizzard syndrome JBS is a rare multi system disorder characterized by congenital aplasia or hypoplasia of alae nasi exocrine pancreatic insufficiency hypothyroidism deafness growth retardation varying degree of mental retardation alopecia wide open fontanels anti mongoloid slant café au lait spots and absent of permanent teeth	.
rd-disab	0	17	Lowe syndrome is a rare X linked disorder characterized by bilateral congenital cataracts renal Fanconi syndrome and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	44	23	The second case was a 6 year old boy of Asian ancestry who presented with ataxia exacerbated by intercurrent illnesses decreased exercise tolerance gross motor and fine motor delays anorexia and recurrent episodes of vomiting associated with dehydration and he was subsequently diagnosed with KSS	.
rd-disab	0	17	Danon disease is an extremely rare X linked dominant disorder characterized by progressive cardiomyopathy muscle weakness and mild mental retardation	.
rd-disab	46	43	These findings show that RSK2 loss of function is associated in the dentate gyrus with multi level alterations that encompass modifications of glutamate receptor channel properties synaptic transmission plasticity associated gene expression and spine morphology providing novel insights into the mechanisms contributing to cognitive impairments in CLS	.
rd-disab	0	16	Ellis van Creveld syndrome EVC is a chondral and ectodermal dysplasia characterized by short ribs polydactyly growth retardation and ectodermal and heart defects	.
rd-disab	3	21	Three children with CHARGE association coloboma heart defect atresia of the choanae retarded growth and development genital hypoplasia ear anomalies and hearing defects as well as concomitant autistic disorder are reported	.
rd-disab	3	26	Three children with CHARGE association coloboma heart defect atresia of the choanae retarded growth and development genital hypoplasia ear anomalies and hearing defects as well as concomitant autistic disorder are reported	.
rd-disab	3	12	Three children with CHARGE association coloboma heart defect atresia of the choanae retarded growth and development genital hypoplasia ear anomalies and hearing defects as well as concomitant autistic disorder are reported	.
rd-disab	19	5	Ophthalmologists should be aware that progressive visual loss and the constriction of visual field can occur in patients with Chediak Higashi syndrome as they grow older	.
rd-disab	12	12	Patients were cognitively classified as having ALS with normal cognition ALS with frontotemporal dementia FTD ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and ALS with behavioral impairment	.
rd-disab	6	24	Patients were cognitively classified as having ALS with normal cognition ALS with frontotemporal dementia FTD ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and ALS with behavioral impairment	.
rd-disab	15	15	CONCLUSIONS This study underlines the need to consider and assess for psychotic symptoms in the frontotemporal dementia amyotrophic lateral sclerosis continuum particularly in those with C9orf72 gene expansions	.
rd-disab	17	15	CONCLUSIONS This study underlines the need to consider and assess for psychotic symptoms in the frontotemporal dementia amyotrophic lateral sclerosis continuum particularly in those with C9orf72 gene expansions	.
rd-disab	15	9	We hypothesized that BDNF+ would be associated with more severe cognitive impairment in subjects with WAGR syndrome	.
rd-disab	0	14	Alport syndrome is a hereditary type IV collagen disease leading to progressive renal fibrosis hearing loss and ocular changes	.
rd-disab	18	2	Characteristic fundus night blindness peripheral visual field loss electroretinography and other manifestations led us to a diagnosis of choroideremia	.
rd-disab	18	4	Characteristic fundus night blindness peripheral visual field loss electroretinography and other manifestations led us to a diagnosis of choroideremia	.
rd-disab	15	15	Despite its frequent occurrence as an early symptom in both Alzheimer s dementia AD and behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD neural correlates of limb apraxia within these patient groups remain unexplored	.
rd-disab	0	11	Cockayne syndrome is a multi systemic autosomal recessive disease characterised by postnatal growth failure and progressive multi organ dysfunction	.
rd-disab	18	24	The Plant homeodomain finger gene 6 PHF6 was identified as the gene mutated in patients suffering from the Borjeson Forssman Lehmann Syndrome BFLS an X linked mental retardation disorder	.
rd-disab	11	11	Recently TBI has also been suggested as a risk factor for frontotemporal dementia FTD and plasma immunoreactivity to the TAR DNA binding protein 43 TDP 43 has been observed in both patients with acute TBI and long term survivors of this condition	.
None	18	23	Lysosome associated membrane protein 2 LAMP 2 is the gene responsible for Danon disease which is characterized by cardiomyopathy autophagic vacuolar myopathy and variable mental retardation	.
None	20	23	Lysosome associated membrane protein 2 LAMP 2 is the gene responsible for Danon disease which is characterized by cardiomyopathy autophagic vacuolar myopathy and variable mental retardation	.
None	18	21	Individuals with Mowat Wilson syndrome MWS OMIM#235730 have characteristic facial features a variety of congenital anomalies such as Hirschsprung disease and intellectual disabilities caused by mutation or deletion of ZEB2 gene	.
None	3	12	Hearing impairment in MWS is variable and shows resemblance to previously described intra cochlear conductive hearing impairment	.
None	6	4	The patients had typical cerebellar ataxia achromatopsia and macular degeneration and displayed a rare phenotype manifesting as a combination of cerebellar ataxia and craniocervical dystonia	.
None	6	4	The patients had typical cerebellar ataxia achromatopsia and macular degeneration and displayed a rare phenotype manifesting as a combination of cerebellar ataxia and craniocervical dystonia	.
None	6	6	The patients had typical cerebellar ataxia achromatopsia and macular degeneration and displayed a rare phenotype manifesting as a combination of cerebellar ataxia and craniocervical dystonia	.
None	6	4	In 2000 the other blinding disorder dominant optic atrophy DOA Kjer type was found associated with mutations in the nuclear gene OPA1 that encodes a mitochondrial protein	.
None	12	16	The aims of this study were to determine the otologic characteristics of MWS define trajectories of hearing loss and explore the association with distinct NLRP3 genotypes	.
None	22	29	This included cases with neurodegeneration and brain iron accumulation corticobasal degeneartion progressive supranuclear palsy PSP Parkinson s disease PD multiple system atropy giant axonal neuropathy GAN neuroaxonal dystrophy NAD Guam dementia and HARP syndrome pallido pyramidal syndrome and hypoprebetalipoproteinemia acanthocytosis retinitis pigmentosa and pallidal degeneration	.
None	11	29	This included cases with neurodegeneration and brain iron accumulation corticobasal degeneartion progressive supranuclear palsy PSP Parkinson s disease PD multiple system atropy giant axonal neuropathy GAN neuroaxonal dystrophy NAD Guam dementia and HARP syndrome pallido pyramidal syndrome and hypoprebetalipoproteinemia acanthocytosis retinitis pigmentosa and pallidal degeneration	.
None	40	29	This included cases with neurodegeneration and brain iron accumulation corticobasal degeneartion progressive supranuclear palsy PSP Parkinson s disease PD multiple system atropy giant axonal neuropathy GAN neuroaxonal dystrophy NAD Guam dementia and HARP syndrome pallido pyramidal syndrome and hypoprebetalipoproteinemia acanthocytosis retinitis pigmentosa and pallidal degeneration	.
None	17	13	The most common central nervous system manifestations were transient and included dysarthria ataxia hemiparesis and tetraparesis resembling periodic paralysis	.
None	17	15	The most common central nervous system manifestations were transient and included dysarthria ataxia hemiparesis and tetraparesis resembling periodic paralysis	.
None	17	11	The most common central nervous system manifestations were transient and included dysarthria ataxia hemiparesis and tetraparesis resembling periodic paralysis	.
None	17	12	The most common central nervous system manifestations were transient and included dysarthria ataxia hemiparesis and tetraparesis resembling periodic paralysis	.
None	9	8	Main clinical features were mental retardation peripheral neuropathy deafness Hirschsprung disease distal arthrogryposis white hairlock and growth retardation	.
None	9	4	Main clinical features were mental retardation peripheral neuropathy deafness Hirschsprung disease distal arthrogryposis white hairlock and growth retardation	.
None	9	16	Main clinical features were mental retardation peripheral neuropathy deafness Hirschsprung disease distal arthrogryposis white hairlock and growth retardation	.
None	11	16	Main clinical features were mental retardation peripheral neuropathy deafness Hirschsprung disease distal arthrogryposis white hairlock and growth retardation	.
None	11	8	Main clinical features were mental retardation peripheral neuropathy deafness Hirschsprung disease distal arthrogryposis white hairlock and growth retardation	.
None	11	4	Main clinical features were mental retardation peripheral neuropathy deafness Hirschsprung disease distal arthrogryposis white hairlock and growth retardation	.
None	27	31	The juvenile type of dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy like Huntingtons disease is most commonly inherited via paternal transmission of the gene and most frequently presents with early onset progressive myoclonus epilepsy with mental retardation and ataxia	.
None	27	34	The juvenile type of dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy like Huntingtons disease is most commonly inherited via paternal transmission of the gene and most frequently presents with early onset progressive myoclonus epilepsy with mental retardation and ataxia	.
None	8	41	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	8	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	8	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	8	32	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	16	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	16	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	16	32	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	54	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	54	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	54	41	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	54	32	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	42	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	42	32	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	42	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	42	32	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	42	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	42	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	26	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	26	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	26	32	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	26	41	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	47	32	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	47	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	47	26	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	47	34	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	47	41	We will consider mtDNA based syndromes such as LHON dystonia Mitochondrial Encephalomyopahty Lactic Acidosis Stroke like MELAS Leigh overlapping syndrome or nuclear based diseases such as Friedreich ataxia mutations in FXN gene deafness dystonia optic atrophy MohrTranebjerg syndrome mutations in TIMM8A complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia mutations in SPG7 DOA plus syndromes mutations in OPA1 CharcotMarieTooth type 2A CMT2A with optic atrophy or hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI mutations in MFN2 and Costeff syndrome and DOA with cataract mutations in OPA3	.
None	10	18	Sjögren Larsson syndrome is an autosomal recessive hereditary disorder involving congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or tetraplegia	.
None	10	15	Sjögren Larsson syndrome is an autosomal recessive hereditary disorder involving congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or tetraplegia	.
None	10	12	Sjögren Larsson syndrome is an autosomal recessive hereditary disorder involving congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or tetraplegia	.
None	55	32	One hundred and fifty years since Nikolaus Friedreich s first description of the degenerative ataxic syndrome which bears his name his description remains at the core of the classical clinical phenotype of gait and limb ataxia poor balance and coordination leg weakness sensory loss areflexia impaired walking dysarthria dysphagia eye movement abnormalities scoliosis foot deformities cardiomyopathy and diabetes	.
None	55	47	One hundred and fifty years since Nikolaus Friedreich s first description of the degenerative ataxic syndrome which bears his name his description remains at the core of the classical clinical phenotype of gait and limb ataxia poor balance and coordination leg weakness sensory loss areflexia impaired walking dysarthria dysphagia eye movement abnormalities scoliosis foot deformities cardiomyopathy and diabetes	.
None	55	42	One hundred and fifty years since Nikolaus Friedreich s first description of the degenerative ataxic syndrome which bears his name his description remains at the core of the classical clinical phenotype of gait and limb ataxia poor balance and coordination leg weakness sensory loss areflexia impaired walking dysarthria dysphagia eye movement abnormalities scoliosis foot deformities cardiomyopathy and diabetes	.
None	55	45	One hundred and fifty years since Nikolaus Friedreich s first description of the degenerative ataxic syndrome which bears his name his description remains at the core of the classical clinical phenotype of gait and limb ataxia poor balance and coordination leg weakness sensory loss areflexia impaired walking dysarthria dysphagia eye movement abnormalities scoliosis foot deformities cardiomyopathy and diabetes	.
None	2	20	1p36 deletion monosomy 1p36 is one of the most common terminal deletions observed in humans characterized by special facial features mental retardation heart defects development delay and epilepsy	.
None	2	24	1p36 deletion monosomy 1p36 is one of the most common terminal deletions observed in humans characterized by special facial features mental retardation heart defects development delay and epilepsy	.
None	0	5	Hirschsprung disease malrotation isochromia a profound sensorineural hearing loss and several other anomalies were found in an infant with an interstitial deletion of 13q suggesting the existence of a contiguous gene syndrome involving developmental genes necessary for the normal growth of the neural crest derivatives of the eye inner ear and colon	.
None	16	27	OBJECTIVES The purpose of this article is to analyze the association of epilepsy in children with DS frequency and type of seizures treatment outcome and to compare cognitive impairment of children with DS and epilepsy and DS without epilepsy from our cohort	.
None	16	27	OBJECTIVES The purpose of this article is to analyze the association of epilepsy in children with DS frequency and type of seizures treatment outcome and to compare cognitive impairment of children with DS and epilepsy and DS without epilepsy from our cohort	.
None	16	27	OBJECTIVES The purpose of this article is to analyze the association of epilepsy in children with DS frequency and type of seizures treatment outcome and to compare cognitive impairment of children with DS and epilepsy and DS without epilepsy from our cohort	.
None	11	12	INTRODUCTION Sjogren Larsson syndrome SLS is characterized by the triad of ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
None	11	15	INTRODUCTION Sjogren Larsson syndrome SLS is characterized by the triad of ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
None	11	18	INTRODUCTION Sjogren Larsson syndrome SLS is characterized by the triad of ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
None	32	36	We report on a 4 1 2 year old girl with apparent CHARGE association who had a de novo inverted duplication 14 q22 >24 3 iris colobomas ventricular septal defect soft tissue choanal atresia intellectual impairment growth retardation sensorineural deafness apparently low set ears and upslanting palpebral fissures	.
None	32	38	We report on a 4 1 2 year old girl with apparent CHARGE association who had a de novo inverted duplication 14 q22 >24 3 iris colobomas ventricular septal defect soft tissue choanal atresia intellectual impairment growth retardation sensorineural deafness apparently low set ears and upslanting palpebral fissures	.
None	32	34	We report on a 4 1 2 year old girl with apparent CHARGE association who had a de novo inverted duplication 14 q22 >24 3 iris colobomas ventricular septal defect soft tissue choanal atresia intellectual impairment growth retardation sensorineural deafness apparently low set ears and upslanting palpebral fissures	.
None	27	36	We report on a 4 1 2 year old girl with apparent CHARGE association who had a de novo inverted duplication 14 q22 >24 3 iris colobomas ventricular septal defect soft tissue choanal atresia intellectual impairment growth retardation sensorineural deafness apparently low set ears and upslanting palpebral fissures	.
None	27	34	We report on a 4 1 2 year old girl with apparent CHARGE association who had a de novo inverted duplication 14 q22 >24 3 iris colobomas ventricular septal defect soft tissue choanal atresia intellectual impairment growth retardation sensorineural deafness apparently low set ears and upslanting palpebral fissures	.
None	27	38	We report on a 4 1 2 year old girl with apparent CHARGE association who had a de novo inverted duplication 14 q22 >24 3 iris colobomas ventricular septal defect soft tissue choanal atresia intellectual impairment growth retardation sensorineural deafness apparently low set ears and upslanting palpebral fissures	.
None	6	25	Because it is difficult to suspect AHDS solely according to neurological features thyroid function including the T3 level should be screened in male patients with X linked mental retardation	.
None	28	4	The majority of the hearing loss is a conductive hearing loss with the exception of Muenke syndrome where the majority of patients have a sensorineural hearing loss and Crouzon syndrome where almost half of patients have a pure or component of sensorineural hearing loss	.
None	28	8	The majority of the hearing loss is a conductive hearing loss with the exception of Muenke syndrome where the majority of patients have a sensorineural hearing loss and Crouzon syndrome where almost half of patients have a pure or component of sensorineural hearing loss	.
None	28	24	The majority of the hearing loss is a conductive hearing loss with the exception of Muenke syndrome where the majority of patients have a sensorineural hearing loss and Crouzon syndrome where almost half of patients have a pure or component of sensorineural hearing loss	.
None	16	5	The absence of dysarthria and ataxia retention of reflexes absence of diabetes and variable development of cardiomyopathy support a slow progression of disease with compound heterozygous mutation at G130V	.
None	16	3	The absence of dysarthria and ataxia retention of reflexes absence of diabetes and variable development of cardiomyopathy support a slow progression of disease with compound heterozygous mutation at G130V	.
None	21	29	Main features are immune deficiency manifested by recurrent infections especially in the first decade of life skeletal abnormalities mild to moderate dysostosis multiplex scoliosis and deformation of the sternum hearing impairment moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss gradual impairment of mental functions and speech and often periods of psychosis	.
None	21	20	Main features are immune deficiency manifested by recurrent infections especially in the first decade of life skeletal abnormalities mild to moderate dysostosis multiplex scoliosis and deformation of the sternum hearing impairment moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss gradual impairment of mental functions and speech and often periods of psychosis	.
None	21	37	Main features are immune deficiency manifested by recurrent infections especially in the first decade of life skeletal abnormalities mild to moderate dysostosis multiplex scoliosis and deformation of the sternum hearing impairment moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss gradual impairment of mental functions and speech and often periods of psychosis	.
None	15	23	Despite its frequent occurrence as an early symptom in both Alzheimer s dementia AD and behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD neural correlates of limb apraxia within these patient groups remain unexplored	.
None	15	10	Despite its frequent occurrence as an early symptom in both Alzheimer s dementia AD and behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD neural correlates of limb apraxia within these patient groups remain unexplored	.
None	5	12	The patient was diagnosed with Cockayne syndrome in the pediatrics clinic for growth failure and developmental delay	.
None	5	15	The patient was diagnosed with Cockayne syndrome in the pediatrics clinic for growth failure and developmental delay	.
None	33	6	Analyses of these mice revealed microphthalmia postnatal growth deficiency brain hypoplasia decreased numbers of neuronal nuclear antigen NeuN positive hippocampal neurons hearing loss cardiovascular malformations aortic arch anomalies double outlet right ventricle and transposition of the great arteries and perimembranous ventricular septal defects spontaneous development of cardiac fibrosis and renal agenesis	.
None	33	21	Analyses of these mice revealed microphthalmia postnatal growth deficiency brain hypoplasia decreased numbers of neuronal nuclear antigen NeuN positive hippocampal neurons hearing loss cardiovascular malformations aortic arch anomalies double outlet right ventricle and transposition of the great arteries and perimembranous ventricular septal defects spontaneous development of cardiac fibrosis and renal agenesis	.
None	28	6	Analyses of these mice revealed microphthalmia postnatal growth deficiency brain hypoplasia decreased numbers of neuronal nuclear antigen NeuN positive hippocampal neurons hearing loss cardiovascular malformations aortic arch anomalies double outlet right ventricle and transposition of the great arteries and perimembranous ventricular septal defects spontaneous development of cardiac fibrosis and renal agenesis	.
None	28	21	Analyses of these mice revealed microphthalmia postnatal growth deficiency brain hypoplasia decreased numbers of neuronal nuclear antigen NeuN positive hippocampal neurons hearing loss cardiovascular malformations aortic arch anomalies double outlet right ventricle and transposition of the great arteries and perimembranous ventricular septal defects spontaneous development of cardiac fibrosis and renal agenesis	.
None	5	14	They revealed the presence of aniridia bilateral cataract and cryptorchidism in 1 24 children mental retardation small stigated congenital major and minor anomalies in 40 chidism in 1 40 children mental retardation small stature and a cystic kidney in 1 40 mental retardation in 3 40	.
None	5	14	They revealed the presence of aniridia bilateral cataract and cryptorchidism in 1 24 children mental retardation small stigated congenital major and minor anomalies in 40 chidism in 1 40 children mental retardation small stature and a cystic kidney in 1 40 mental retardation in 3 40	.
None	5	14	They revealed the presence of aniridia bilateral cataract and cryptorchidism in 1 24 children mental retardation small stigated congenital major and minor anomalies in 40 chidism in 1 40 children mental retardation small stature and a cystic kidney in 1 40 mental retardation in 3 40	.
None	8	5	The most striking difference between hearing loss in Fechtner syndrome and that in Alport s syndrome was that the vast majority of hearing disorders in the latter occur in male patients which is not the case in Fechtner syndrome	.
None	8	5	The most striking difference between hearing loss in Fechtner syndrome and that in Alport s syndrome was that the vast majority of hearing disorders in the latter occur in male patients which is not the case in Fechtner syndrome	.
None	8	5	The most striking difference between hearing loss in Fechtner syndrome and that in Alport s syndrome was that the vast majority of hearing disorders in the latter occur in male patients which is not the case in Fechtner syndrome	.
None	4	11	Both affected siblings had cone rod dystrophy with impaired visual acuity sensorineural hearing loss and truncal obesity	.
None	4	8	Both affected siblings had cone rod dystrophy with impaired visual acuity sensorineural hearing loss and truncal obesity	.
None	1	3	Severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans SADDAN is an extremely rare severe skeletal dysplasia characterized by significant developmental delay brain structural abnormalities hearing loss and acanthosis nigricans	.
None	1	3	Severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans SADDAN is an extremely rare severe skeletal dysplasia characterized by significant developmental delay brain structural abnormalities hearing loss and acanthosis nigricans	.
None	1	24	Severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans SADDAN is an extremely rare severe skeletal dysplasia characterized by significant developmental delay brain structural abnormalities hearing loss and acanthosis nigricans	.
None	0	3	Severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans SADDAN is an extremely rare severe skeletal dysplasia characterized by significant developmental delay brain structural abnormalities hearing loss and acanthosis nigricans	.
None	33	25	Mutations described thus far in PRPS1 are all missense mutations that result in PRS I superactivity or in variable levels of decreased activity resulting in X linked Charcot Marie Tooth disease 5 CMTX5 Arts syndrome and X linked nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness DFN2	.
None	13	25	Mutations described thus far in PRPS1 are all missense mutations that result in PRS I superactivity or in variable levels of decreased activity resulting in X linked Charcot Marie Tooth disease 5 CMTX5 Arts syndrome and X linked nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness DFN2	.
None	25	25	Mutations described thus far in PRPS1 are all missense mutations that result in PRS I superactivity or in variable levels of decreased activity resulting in X linked Charcot Marie Tooth disease 5 CMTX5 Arts syndrome and X linked nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness DFN2	.
None	0	10	Alport syndrome is often associated with sensorineural hearing loss and ocular abnormalities and patients suffering from typical Alport syndrome usually develop end stage renal disease during adolescence or young adulthood	.
None	0	6	Alport syndrome is often associated with sensorineural hearing loss and ocular abnormalities and patients suffering from typical Alport syndrome usually develop end stage renal disease during adolescence or young adulthood	.
None	33	39	Costello syndrome is a distinctive multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by loose soft skin with deep palmar and plantar creases loose joints distinctive coarse facial features skeletal abnormalities cardiac abnormalities cardiovascular malformation CVM hypertrophic cardiomyopathy tachycardia predisposition to malignancy developmental delays and mental retardation	.
None	33	42	Costello syndrome is a distinctive multiple congenital anomaly syndrome characterized by loose soft skin with deep palmar and plantar creases loose joints distinctive coarse facial features skeletal abnormalities cardiac abnormalities cardiovascular malformation CVM hypertrophic cardiomyopathy tachycardia predisposition to malignancy developmental delays and mental retardation	.
None	23	14	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive hereditary spinocerebellar disorder characterized by progressive limb and gait ataxia due to proprioceptive loss often complicated by cardiomyopathy diabetes and skeletal deformities	.
None	5	14	In addition to the typical Charcot Marie Tooth disease clinical phenotype some patients had delayed motor development sensorineural hearing loss tremor pathologic fractures or transient CNS disturbances	.
None	5	17	In addition to the typical Charcot Marie Tooth disease clinical phenotype some patients had delayed motor development sensorineural hearing loss tremor pathologic fractures or transient CNS disturbances	.
None	10	12	Typically NARP syndrome is characterized by developmental delay seizures dementia retinitis pigmentosa ataxia sensory neuropathy and proximal weakness	.
None	10	9	Typically NARP syndrome is characterized by developmental delay seizures dementia retinitis pigmentosa ataxia sensory neuropathy and proximal weakness	.
None	10	6	Typically NARP syndrome is characterized by developmental delay seizures dementia retinitis pigmentosa ataxia sensory neuropathy and proximal weakness	.
None	71	69	Considering all of the 321 patients so far available including our dataset and previously published cases at the mean age of approximately 35 years the clinical picture was characterized by the following signs symptoms in descending order myoclonus muscle weakness ataxia 35 45 of patients generalized seizures hearing loss 25 34 9 cognitive impairment multiple lipomatosis neuropathy exercise intolerance 15 24 9 and increased creatine kinase levels ptosis ophthalmoparesis optic atrophy cardiomyopathy muscle wasting respiratory impairment diabetes muscle pain tremor migraine 5 14 9	.
None	71	47	Considering all of the 321 patients so far available including our dataset and previously published cases at the mean age of approximately 35 years the clinical picture was characterized by the following signs symptoms in descending order myoclonus muscle weakness ataxia 35 45 of patients generalized seizures hearing loss 25 34 9 cognitive impairment multiple lipomatosis neuropathy exercise intolerance 15 24 9 and increased creatine kinase levels ptosis ophthalmoparesis optic atrophy cardiomyopathy muscle wasting respiratory impairment diabetes muscle pain tremor migraine 5 14 9	.
None	71	52	Considering all of the 321 patients so far available including our dataset and previously published cases at the mean age of approximately 35 years the clinical picture was characterized by the following signs symptoms in descending order myoclonus muscle weakness ataxia 35 45 of patients generalized seizures hearing loss 25 34 9 cognitive impairment multiple lipomatosis neuropathy exercise intolerance 15 24 9 and increased creatine kinase levels ptosis ophthalmoparesis optic atrophy cardiomyopathy muscle wasting respiratory impairment diabetes muscle pain tremor migraine 5 14 9	.
None	71	40	Considering all of the 321 patients so far available including our dataset and previously published cases at the mean age of approximately 35 years the clinical picture was characterized by the following signs symptoms in descending order myoclonus muscle weakness ataxia 35 45 of patients generalized seizures hearing loss 25 34 9 cognitive impairment multiple lipomatosis neuropathy exercise intolerance 15 24 9 and increased creatine kinase levels ptosis ophthalmoparesis optic atrophy cardiomyopathy muscle wasting respiratory impairment diabetes muscle pain tremor migraine 5 14 9	.
None	67	69	Considering all of the 321 patients so far available including our dataset and previously published cases at the mean age of approximately 35 years the clinical picture was characterized by the following signs symptoms in descending order myoclonus muscle weakness ataxia 35 45 of patients generalized seizures hearing loss 25 34 9 cognitive impairment multiple lipomatosis neuropathy exercise intolerance 15 24 9 and increased creatine kinase levels ptosis ophthalmoparesis optic atrophy cardiomyopathy muscle wasting respiratory impairment diabetes muscle pain tremor migraine 5 14 9	.
None	67	52	Considering all of the 321 patients so far available including our dataset and previously published cases at the mean age of approximately 35 years the clinical picture was characterized by the following signs symptoms in descending order myoclonus muscle weakness ataxia 35 45 of patients generalized seizures hearing loss 25 34 9 cognitive impairment multiple lipomatosis neuropathy exercise intolerance 15 24 9 and increased creatine kinase levels ptosis ophthalmoparesis optic atrophy cardiomyopathy muscle wasting respiratory impairment diabetes muscle pain tremor migraine 5 14 9	.
None	67	40	Considering all of the 321 patients so far available including our dataset and previously published cases at the mean age of approximately 35 years the clinical picture was characterized by the following signs symptoms in descending order myoclonus muscle weakness ataxia 35 45 of patients generalized seizures hearing loss 25 34 9 cognitive impairment multiple lipomatosis neuropathy exercise intolerance 15 24 9 and increased creatine kinase levels ptosis ophthalmoparesis optic atrophy cardiomyopathy muscle wasting respiratory impairment diabetes muscle pain tremor migraine 5 14 9	.
None	67	47	Considering all of the 321 patients so far available including our dataset and previously published cases at the mean age of approximately 35 years the clinical picture was characterized by the following signs symptoms in descending order myoclonus muscle weakness ataxia 35 45 of patients generalized seizures hearing loss 25 34 9 cognitive impairment multiple lipomatosis neuropathy exercise intolerance 15 24 9 and increased creatine kinase levels ptosis ophthalmoparesis optic atrophy cardiomyopathy muscle wasting respiratory impairment diabetes muscle pain tremor migraine 5 14 9	.
None	11	11	Our results are consistent with a role for lipid peroxidation in Friedreich ataxia pathology and suggest that the novel approach of oral delivery of isotope reinforced PUFAs may have therapeutic potential in Friedreich ataxia and other disorders involving oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation	.
None	11	11	Our results are consistent with a role for lipid peroxidation in Friedreich ataxia pathology and suggest that the novel approach of oral delivery of isotope reinforced PUFAs may have therapeutic potential in Friedreich ataxia and other disorders involving oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation	.
None	4	2	If hypogonadism ataxia retinitis cardiomyopathy or dwarfism is present other diagnosis rather than SLS should be investigated	.
None	11	8	Prader Willi syndrome PWS is the most frequent neurodevelopmental disorder with syndromic obesity and has a well established management and treatment plan	.
None	37	32	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	37	18	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	37	49	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	37	23	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	40	32	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	40	49	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	51	18	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	51	23	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	51	32	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	51	49	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	57	49	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	57	32	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	48	49	Moreover accumulating reports have linked various genetic defects that either up or down regulate Ras Rap signaling with several mental disorders associated with learning disability e g Alzheimer s disease Angelman syndrome autism cardio facio cutaneous syndrome Coffin Lowry syndrome Costello syndrome Cowden and Bannayan Riley Ruvalcaba syndromes fragile X syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 Noonan syndrome schizophrenia tuberous sclerosis and X linked mental retardation highlighting the necessity of happy medium dynamic regulation of Ras Rap signaling in learning behavior	.
None	7	17	These patients constituted a particular form of congenital muscular dystrophy with a combination of severe motor delay mental retardation partial merosin deficiency and cerebellar cysts	.
None	7	14	These patients constituted a particular form of congenital muscular dystrophy with a combination of severe motor delay mental retardation partial merosin deficiency and cerebellar cysts	.
None	1	4	BACKGROUND Dilated cardiomyopathy DCM non progressive cerebellar ataxia A testicular dysgenesis growth failure and 3 methylglutaconic aciduria are the hallmarks of DNAJC19 defect or DCMA syndrome due to biallelic mutations in DNAJC19	.
None	1	11	BACKGROUND Dilated cardiomyopathy DCM non progressive cerebellar ataxia A testicular dysgenesis growth failure and 3 methylglutaconic aciduria are the hallmarks of DNAJC19 defect or DCMA syndrome due to biallelic mutations in DNAJC19	.
None	14	4	BACKGROUND Dilated cardiomyopathy DCM non progressive cerebellar ataxia A testicular dysgenesis growth failure and 3 methylglutaconic aciduria are the hallmarks of DNAJC19 defect or DCMA syndrome due to biallelic mutations in DNAJC19	.
None	14	11	BACKGROUND Dilated cardiomyopathy DCM non progressive cerebellar ataxia A testicular dysgenesis growth failure and 3 methylglutaconic aciduria are the hallmarks of DNAJC19 defect or DCMA syndrome due to biallelic mutations in DNAJC19	.
None	39	32	Since all patients with BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome are male and X linked syndrome of ichthyosis follicularis with atrichia and photophobia is sometimes associated with several features of BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome such as intellectual disability vertebral and renal anomalies and Hirschsprung disease we analyzed the causal gene of ichthyosis follicularis with atrichia and photophobia syndrome MBTPS2 in the present patient and identified an p Arg429His mutation	.
None	14	32	Since all patients with BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome are male and X linked syndrome of ichthyosis follicularis with atrichia and photophobia is sometimes associated with several features of BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome such as intellectual disability vertebral and renal anomalies and Hirschsprung disease we analyzed the causal gene of ichthyosis follicularis with atrichia and photophobia syndrome MBTPS2 in the present patient and identified an p Arg429His mutation	.
None	0	14	Wolfram syndrome WS also known as DIDMOAD Diabetes Insipidus Diabetes Mellitus Optic Atrophy and Deafness is a rare autosomal recessive syndrome 1 770 000 in the United Kingdom characterised by juvenile onset of diabetes mellitus optic nerve atrophy diabetes insipidus sensorineural deafness renal tract and neurological abnormalities and primary gonadal atrophy	.
None	0	11	Wolfram syndrome WS also known as DIDMOAD Diabetes Insipidus Diabetes Mellitus Optic Atrophy and Deafness is a rare autosomal recessive syndrome 1 770 000 in the United Kingdom characterised by juvenile onset of diabetes mellitus optic nerve atrophy diabetes insipidus sensorineural deafness renal tract and neurological abnormalities and primary gonadal atrophy	.
None	11	14	Here we report a 2 year 2 month old boy with Diamond Blackfan anemia global developmental delay cognitive impairments distinctive facial features behavior problems skeletal and genital dysplasia	.
None	11	17	Here we report a 2 year 2 month old boy with Diamond Blackfan anemia global developmental delay cognitive impairments distinctive facial features behavior problems skeletal and genital dysplasia	.
None	11	22	Here we report a 2 year 2 month old boy with Diamond Blackfan anemia global developmental delay cognitive impairments distinctive facial features behavior problems skeletal and genital dysplasia	.
None	17	38	Mutations in the gene encoding neural cell adhesion molecule L1 L1CAM are involved in X linked hydrocephalus HSAS hydrocephalus due to stenosis of the aqueduct of Sylvius MASA syndrome mental retardation aphasia shuffling gait and adducted thumbs and spastic paraplegia type 1	.
None	17	31	Mutations in the gene encoding neural cell adhesion molecule L1 L1CAM are involved in X linked hydrocephalus HSAS hydrocephalus due to stenosis of the aqueduct of Sylvius MASA syndrome mental retardation aphasia shuffling gait and adducted thumbs and spastic paraplegia type 1	.
None	17	29	Mutations in the gene encoding neural cell adhesion molecule L1 L1CAM are involved in X linked hydrocephalus HSAS hydrocephalus due to stenosis of the aqueduct of Sylvius MASA syndrome mental retardation aphasia shuffling gait and adducted thumbs and spastic paraplegia type 1	.
None	27	38	Mutations in the gene encoding neural cell adhesion molecule L1 L1CAM are involved in X linked hydrocephalus HSAS hydrocephalus due to stenosis of the aqueduct of Sylvius MASA syndrome mental retardation aphasia shuffling gait and adducted thumbs and spastic paraplegia type 1	.
None	8	30	The Mohr Tranebjaerg syndrome MIM 304700 and the Jensen syndrome MIM 311150 were previously reported as separate X linked recessive deafness syndromes associated with progressive visual deterioration dystonia dementia and psychiatric abnormalities	.
None	8	24	The Mohr Tranebjaerg syndrome MIM 304700 and the Jensen syndrome MIM 311150 were previously reported as separate X linked recessive deafness syndromes associated with progressive visual deterioration dystonia dementia and psychiatric abnormalities	.
None	8	28	The Mohr Tranebjaerg syndrome MIM 304700 and the Jensen syndrome MIM 311150 were previously reported as separate X linked recessive deafness syndromes associated with progressive visual deterioration dystonia dementia and psychiatric abnormalities	.
None	36	7	DESIGN The frequency severity and type of hearing impairment was characterized prospectively using pure tone audiometry tympanometry stapedial reflexes otoacoustic emissions and brainstem evoked response audiometry in adult patients on enzyme replacement therapy for genetically confirmed Pompe disease	.
None	25	13	Identified risk factors for infectious complications include functional impairment and the presence of dementia which may allow for better risk stratification and individualized treatment of bullous pemphigoid	.
None	25	7	Identified risk factors for infectious complications include functional impairment and the presence of dementia which may allow for better risk stratification and individualized treatment of bullous pemphigoid	.
None	7	17	We review the current knowledge of the FTD spectrum and common features shared by FTD and some psychiatric diseases starting from Picks clinical description of the disease moving toward pathogenic aspects of the disease and genetic causes and associated phenotypes and finishing with analysis of crossing borders between FTD and psychiatric disorders mainly represented by schizophrenia and bipolar spectrum disorders in clinical practice in terms of overlapping symptoms differential diagnosis comorbidity and treatment issues	.
None	7	17	We review the current knowledge of the FTD spectrum and common features shared by FTD and some psychiatric diseases starting from Picks clinical description of the disease moving toward pathogenic aspects of the disease and genetic causes and associated phenotypes and finishing with analysis of crossing borders between FTD and psychiatric disorders mainly represented by schizophrenia and bipolar spectrum disorders in clinical practice in terms of overlapping symptoms differential diagnosis comorbidity and treatment issues	.
None	7	17	We review the current knowledge of the FTD spectrum and common features shared by FTD and some psychiatric diseases starting from Picks clinical description of the disease moving toward pathogenic aspects of the disease and genetic causes and associated phenotypes and finishing with analysis of crossing borders between FTD and psychiatric disorders mainly represented by schizophrenia and bipolar spectrum disorders in clinical practice in terms of overlapping symptoms differential diagnosis comorbidity and treatment issues	.
None	7	17	We review the current knowledge of the FTD spectrum and common features shared by FTD and some psychiatric diseases starting from Picks clinical description of the disease moving toward pathogenic aspects of the disease and genetic causes and associated phenotypes and finishing with analysis of crossing borders between FTD and psychiatric disorders mainly represented by schizophrenia and bipolar spectrum disorders in clinical practice in terms of overlapping symptoms differential diagnosis comorbidity and treatment issues	.
None	7	17	We review the current knowledge of the FTD spectrum and common features shared by FTD and some psychiatric diseases starting from Picks clinical description of the disease moving toward pathogenic aspects of the disease and genetic causes and associated phenotypes and finishing with analysis of crossing borders between FTD and psychiatric disorders mainly represented by schizophrenia and bipolar spectrum disorders in clinical practice in terms of overlapping symptoms differential diagnosis comorbidity and treatment issues	.
None	7	17	We review the current knowledge of the FTD spectrum and common features shared by FTD and some psychiatric diseases starting from Picks clinical description of the disease moving toward pathogenic aspects of the disease and genetic causes and associated phenotypes and finishing with analysis of crossing borders between FTD and psychiatric disorders mainly represented by schizophrenia and bipolar spectrum disorders in clinical practice in terms of overlapping symptoms differential diagnosis comorbidity and treatment issues	.
None	8	26	We report the case of a boy with myoclonic epilepsy with ragged red fibers MERRF who had astatic seizures since 2years of age and later developed ataxia absence seizures and myoclonus	.
None	26	6	Electrocardiograms ECG of 503 children with congenital bilateral profound hearing loss which were cochlear implanted in cochlear implant center of a tertiary hospital were evaluated for long QT syndrome	.
None	20	28	Sjögren Larsson syndrome SLS is an autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder most commonly seen in the Scandinavian population and characterized by congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
None	20	25	Sjögren Larsson syndrome SLS is an autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder most commonly seen in the Scandinavian population and characterized by congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
None	20	22	Sjögren Larsson syndrome SLS is an autosomal recessive neurocutaneous disorder most commonly seen in the Scandinavian population and characterized by congenital ichthyosis mental retardation and spastic diplegia or quadriplegia	.
None	4	16	Steroid responsive cases of CMT have been reported but this is the first case report of steroid responsive sensorineural hearing loss in CMT	.
None	5	30	The most severe phenotypes are Walker Warburg Syndrome WWS and muscle eye brain disease MEB presenting with lissencephaly type II LIS II and in which muscular dystrophy is associated with mental retardation and eye abnormalities	.
None	17	10	CASE REPORTS A 44 Year old man who complained of visual loss presented bilateral congenital aniridia with corneal dystrophy and dense cataract	.
None	0	19	Norrie disease is an X linked recessive disorder characterized by congenital blindness and in some cases mental retardation and deafness	.
None	0	16	Norrie disease is an X linked recessive disorder characterized by congenital blindness and in some cases mental retardation and deafness	.
None	44	45	We report the case of a 10 years old male patient diagnosed with Hurler syndrome the severe presentation 5 years ago by enzyme a L iduronidase activity measurement in leukocytes with a history of recurrent respiratory infections umbilical hernia corneal opacity coarse facial features macroglossia hearing loss stiffness of joints cardiac compromise claw hands mental retardation and stunted growth	.
None	44	54	We report the case of a 10 years old male patient diagnosed with Hurler syndrome the severe presentation 5 years ago by enzyme a L iduronidase activity measurement in leukocytes with a history of recurrent respiratory infections umbilical hernia corneal opacity coarse facial features macroglossia hearing loss stiffness of joints cardiac compromise claw hands mental retardation and stunted growth	.
None	13	45	We report the case of a 10 years old male patient diagnosed with Hurler syndrome the severe presentation 5 years ago by enzyme a L iduronidase activity measurement in leukocytes with a history of recurrent respiratory infections umbilical hernia corneal opacity coarse facial features macroglossia hearing loss stiffness of joints cardiac compromise claw hands mental retardation and stunted growth	.
None	13	54	We report the case of a 10 years old male patient diagnosed with Hurler syndrome the severe presentation 5 years ago by enzyme a L iduronidase activity measurement in leukocytes with a history of recurrent respiratory infections umbilical hernia corneal opacity coarse facial features macroglossia hearing loss stiffness of joints cardiac compromise claw hands mental retardation and stunted growth	.
None	19	24	The PUBMED PsycInfo SCIELO and LILACS electronic databases were used and the following search terms were employed CMT HMSN hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy mental disorder quality of life psychiatry psychiatric and psychological without the use of time limit filters	.
None	17	24	The PUBMED PsycInfo SCIELO and LILACS electronic databases were used and the following search terms were employed CMT HMSN hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy mental disorder quality of life psychiatry psychiatric and psychological without the use of time limit filters	.
None	11	18	Danon disease DD is a monogenic X linked disorder characterized by cardiomyopathy skeletal myopathy and variable degrees of intellectual disability	.
None	7	15	The authors highlight the importance of suspecting HD in the aetiology of spinocerebellar ataxias when dementia is a prominent feature in the proband or their family	.
None	7	12	The authors highlight the importance of suspecting HD in the aetiology of spinocerebellar ataxias when dementia is a prominent feature in the proband or their family	.
None	5	19	Social deficits are prevalent in Turner syndrome TS however the extent to which these difficulties are secondary to characteristic cognitive impairments is not well known	.
None	22	28	We report on the case of a 17 year old boy with clinical features compatible with Lowry Wood syndrome microcephaly short stature multiple epiphyseal dysplasia tapetoretinal degeneration and mental retardation	.
None	22	25	We report on the case of a 17 year old boy with clinical features compatible with Lowry Wood syndrome microcephaly short stature multiple epiphyseal dysplasia tapetoretinal degeneration and mental retardation	.
None	27	54	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
None	27	54	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
None	27	20	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
None	50	54	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
None	50	20	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
None	50	54	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
None	50	20	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
None	50	54	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
None	50	54	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
None	56	20	We describe the clinical course as well as cytogenetic and molecular findings of a 3 year old obese boy with psychomotor retardation who exhibited two rare conditions succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency SSADH deficiency MIM 271980 a disorder of aminobutyric acid metabolism with a heterogeneous clinical spectrum and partial Wilms tumor aniridia genital abnormalities and mental retardation WAGR syndrome an association between Wilms tumor aniridia genitourinary malformations and mental retardation due to mutations involving the short arm of chromosome 11 particularly deletions at the chromosomal region 11p13 MIM 194072	.
None	8	11	CHARGE syndrome was discussed because of ear anomalies choanal atresia and developmental delay in our patients	.
None	9	15	We present a male patient with sporadic Aarskog syndrome cleft palate mild intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder ASD	.
None	9	11	We present a male patient with sporadic Aarskog syndrome cleft palate mild intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder ASD	.
None	7	15	We present a male patient with sporadic Aarskog syndrome cleft palate mild intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder ASD	.
None	7	11	We present a male patient with sporadic Aarskog syndrome cleft palate mild intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder ASD	.
None	13	23	Among the unusual patients two patients had clinical features of charge syndrome including choanal atresia coloboma cardiac defects genitourinary anomaly 1 2 and severe intellectual disability two patients had craniosynostosis and three patients had mild intellectual disability	.
None	13	34	Among the unusual patients two patients had clinical features of charge syndrome including choanal atresia coloboma cardiac defects genitourinary anomaly 1 2 and severe intellectual disability two patients had craniosynostosis and three patients had mild intellectual disability	.
None	10	34	Among the unusual patients two patients had clinical features of charge syndrome including choanal atresia coloboma cardiac defects genitourinary anomaly 1 2 and severe intellectual disability two patients had craniosynostosis and three patients had mild intellectual disability	.
None	29	23	Among the unusual patients two patients had clinical features of charge syndrome including choanal atresia coloboma cardiac defects genitourinary anomaly 1 2 and severe intellectual disability two patients had craniosynostosis and three patients had mild intellectual disability	.
None	29	34	Among the unusual patients two patients had clinical features of charge syndrome including choanal atresia coloboma cardiac defects genitourinary anomaly 1 2 and severe intellectual disability two patients had craniosynostosis and three patients had mild intellectual disability	.
None	10	12	BACKGROUND The spectrum of CHARGE association includes coloboma heart disease choanal atresia retarded growth and development and or CNS anomalies genital anomalies and or hypogonadism and ear anomalies and or deafness	.
None	10	30	BACKGROUND The spectrum of CHARGE association includes coloboma heart disease choanal atresia retarded growth and development and or CNS anomalies genital anomalies and or hypogonadism and ear anomalies and or deafness	.
None	19	11	Muckle Wells syndrome is characterized by recurrent fever and urticarial rash progressive sensorineural deafness and the development of secondary amyloidosis but it is not considered the most severe disease of this group	.
None	19	12	Muckle Wells syndrome is characterized by recurrent fever and urticarial rash progressive sensorineural deafness and the development of secondary amyloidosis but it is not considered the most severe disease of this group	.
None	18	11	Muckle Wells syndrome is characterized by recurrent fever and urticarial rash progressive sensorineural deafness and the development of secondary amyloidosis but it is not considered the most severe disease of this group	.
None	5	10	These results further implicate that trisomy 9p is associated with mental retardation and that there may be key gene duplication on chromosome 9p21 3→9pter responsible for mental retardation and mild facial anomaly	.
None	27	14	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive inherited neuro and cardio degenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia sensory loss skeletal deformities and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy	.
None	27	22	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive inherited neuro and cardio degenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia sensory loss skeletal deformities and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy	.
None	27	20	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive inherited neuro and cardio degenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia sensory loss skeletal deformities and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy	.
None	33	10	These findings suggest the necessity of an adequate support for developmental delay and periodical screening for hepatoblastoma in the affected patients and some phenotypic overlap between UPD 14 pat and related conditions and Beckwith Wiedemann syndrome	.
None	16	10	These findings suggest the necessity of an adequate support for developmental delay and periodical screening for hepatoblastoma in the affected patients and some phenotypic overlap between UPD 14 pat and related conditions and Beckwith Wiedemann syndrome	.
None	3	26	Usually late onset NKH only manifests mild mental deterioration character change seizure ataxia or spastic paraparesis which sometimes makes difficulty in differentiating this disease from other hereditary cerebellar ataxia or spastic paraparesis	.
None	3	14	Usually late onset NKH only manifests mild mental deterioration character change seizure ataxia or spastic paraparesis which sometimes makes difficulty in differentiating this disease from other hereditary cerebellar ataxia or spastic paraparesis	.
None	18	9	The occurrence of a tumor in a child with growth retardation and cutis laxa must be reminiscent of Costello syndrome	.
None	12	63	OBJECTIVES To characterize otologic management of two patient groups those with the CHARGE association and those not strictly labeled as CHARGE but with several features of the disorder CHARGE like in order to determine 1 the clinical validity and utility of managing CHARGE like children in a similar manner to patients with the strictly defined CHARGE association 2 the progression and prognosis of hearing loss and 3 the identification of factors that may predict the degree of hearing loss	.
None	12	63	OBJECTIVES To characterize otologic management of two patient groups those with the CHARGE association and those not strictly labeled as CHARGE but with several features of the disorder CHARGE like in order to determine 1 the clinical validity and utility of managing CHARGE like children in a similar manner to patients with the strictly defined CHARGE association 2 the progression and prognosis of hearing loss and 3 the identification of factors that may predict the degree of hearing loss	.
None	12	63	OBJECTIVES To characterize otologic management of two patient groups those with the CHARGE association and those not strictly labeled as CHARGE but with several features of the disorder CHARGE like in order to determine 1 the clinical validity and utility of managing CHARGE like children in a similar manner to patients with the strictly defined CHARGE association 2 the progression and prognosis of hearing loss and 3 the identification of factors that may predict the degree of hearing loss	.
None	12	63	OBJECTIVES To characterize otologic management of two patient groups those with the CHARGE association and those not strictly labeled as CHARGE but with several features of the disorder CHARGE like in order to determine 1 the clinical validity and utility of managing CHARGE like children in a similar manner to patients with the strictly defined CHARGE association 2 the progression and prognosis of hearing loss and 3 the identification of factors that may predict the degree of hearing loss	.
None	8	10	Although the molecular pathophysiology underlying behavioral changes in SLOS and autism spectrum disorders is poorly understood there is evidence for the involvement of the serotonergic system in SLOS and autism in general	.
None	8	10	Although the molecular pathophysiology underlying behavioral changes in SLOS and autism spectrum disorders is poorly understood there is evidence for the involvement of the serotonergic system in SLOS and autism in general	.
None	8	10	Although the molecular pathophysiology underlying behavioral changes in SLOS and autism spectrum disorders is poorly understood there is evidence for the involvement of the serotonergic system in SLOS and autism in general	.
None	8	10	Although the molecular pathophysiology underlying behavioral changes in SLOS and autism spectrum disorders is poorly understood there is evidence for the involvement of the serotonergic system in SLOS and autism in general	.
None	18	45	BACKGROUND Microscopically chromosome rearrangements of the short arm of chromosome 4 include the two known clinical entities partial trisomy 4p and deletions of the Wolf Hirschhorn critical regions 1 and 2 WHSCR 1 and WHSCR 2 respectively which cause cranio facial anomalies congenital malformations and developmental delay intellectual disability	.
None	18	47	BACKGROUND Microscopically chromosome rearrangements of the short arm of chromosome 4 include the two known clinical entities partial trisomy 4p and deletions of the Wolf Hirschhorn critical regions 1 and 2 WHSCR 1 and WHSCR 2 respectively which cause cranio facial anomalies congenital malformations and developmental delay intellectual disability	.
None	7	48	Our results show the difficulty of distinguishing AHDS from patients with X linked intellectual disability solely on the basis of clinical features and biochemical tests and we advise screening for MCT8 mutations in either young or older patients with severe intellectual disability axial hypotonia dystonia poor head control spastic paraplegia and athetoid movements even when they have normal thyroid hormone profiles	.
None	7	51	Our results show the difficulty of distinguishing AHDS from patients with X linked intellectual disability solely on the basis of clinical features and biochemical tests and we advise screening for MCT8 mutations in either young or older patients with severe intellectual disability axial hypotonia dystonia poor head control spastic paraplegia and athetoid movements even when they have normal thyroid hormone profiles	.
None	7	39	Our results show the difficulty of distinguishing AHDS from patients with X linked intellectual disability solely on the basis of clinical features and biochemical tests and we advise screening for MCT8 mutations in either young or older patients with severe intellectual disability axial hypotonia dystonia poor head control spastic paraplegia and athetoid movements even when they have normal thyroid hormone profiles	.
None	7	11	Our results show the difficulty of distinguishing AHDS from patients with X linked intellectual disability solely on the basis of clinical features and biochemical tests and we advise screening for MCT8 mutations in either young or older patients with severe intellectual disability axial hypotonia dystonia poor head control spastic paraplegia and athetoid movements even when they have normal thyroid hormone profiles	.
None	20	18	Fraser syndrome FS is a rare autosomal recessive inherited disorder characterized by cryptophthalmos laryngeal defects and oral clefting mental retardation syndactyly and urogenital defects	.
None	12	24	Patients were cognitively classified as having ALS with normal cognition ALS with frontotemporal dementia FTD ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and ALS with behavioral impairment	.
None	6	24	Patients were cognitively classified as having ALS with normal cognition ALS with frontotemporal dementia FTD ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and ALS with behavioral impairment	.
None	6	12	Patients were cognitively classified as having ALS with normal cognition ALS with frontotemporal dementia FTD ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and ALS with behavioral impairment	.
None	6	24	Patients were cognitively classified as having ALS with normal cognition ALS with frontotemporal dementia FTD ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and ALS with behavioral impairment	.
None	6	24	Patients were cognitively classified as having ALS with normal cognition ALS with frontotemporal dementia FTD ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and ALS with behavioral impairment	.
None	17	6	This report describes a patient with mild language delay and mental retardation who was found to have nonketotic hyperglycinemia following her presentation with acute encephalopathy and chorea shortly after initiation of valproate therapy	.
None	17	10	This report describes a patient with mild language delay and mental retardation who was found to have nonketotic hyperglycinemia following her presentation with acute encephalopathy and chorea shortly after initiation of valproate therapy	.
None	9	17	The policy of limiting medical intervention in newborns with Edwards syndrome due to the broad spectrum of severe congenital malformations severe mental retard and reduced life expectancy is unanimously accepted but yet difficult to apply from an ethical point of view	.
None	19	3	A woman with psychomotor developmental delay congenital glaucoma and distinctive facial features and a short neck was diagnosed with Jacobsen syndrome JBS at age 40 years	.
None	6	3	A woman with psychomotor developmental delay congenital glaucoma and distinctive facial features and a short neck was diagnosed with Jacobsen syndrome JBS at age 40 years	.
None	34	12	BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome is a multiple congenital malformation characterized by brain anomalies intellectual disability ectodermal dysplasia skeletal deformities ear or eye anomalies and renal anomalies or small kidneys with or without Hirschsprung disease and cleft palate or cryptorchidism	.
None	31	12	BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome is a multiple congenital malformation characterized by brain anomalies intellectual disability ectodermal dysplasia skeletal deformities ear or eye anomalies and renal anomalies or small kidneys with or without Hirschsprung disease and cleft palate or cryptorchidism	.
None	14	12	BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome is a multiple congenital malformation characterized by brain anomalies intellectual disability ectodermal dysplasia skeletal deformities ear or eye anomalies and renal anomalies or small kidneys with or without Hirschsprung disease and cleft palate or cryptorchidism	.
None	13	17	A variety of clinical complications have been reported including seizures hypotonia heart malformations cardiomyopathy vision problems and hearing loss	.
None	13	14	A variety of clinical complications have been reported including seizures hypotonia heart malformations cardiomyopathy vision problems and hearing loss	.
None	4	17	PURPOSE Survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL treated with CNS directed chemotherapy are at risk for neurocognitive deficits	.
None	40	9	One of our adult patients had several types of movement disorder and epilepsy that merged seamlessly there was true cataplexy triggered by telling a joke something close to cataplexy cataplexy triggered by sound startle a predominantly hypertonic reaction varying from hyperekplexia to a more prolonged tonic reaction resembling startle epilepsy and true unprovoked epileptic seizures	.
None	14	17	The most common diagnoses known in 129 were Angelman syndrome n=16 ataxia telangiectasia n=13 mitochondrial disease n=9 Friedreich ataxia n=7 stroke n=7 and familial genetic episodic ataxia n=7	.
None	14	11	The most common diagnoses known in 129 were Angelman syndrome n=16 ataxia telangiectasia n=13 mitochondrial disease n=9 Friedreich ataxia n=7 stroke n=7 and familial genetic episodic ataxia n=7	.
None	14	23	The most common diagnoses known in 129 were Angelman syndrome n=16 ataxia telangiectasia n=13 mitochondrial disease n=9 Friedreich ataxia n=7 stroke n=7 and familial genetic episodic ataxia n=7	.
None	14	8	The most common diagnoses known in 129 were Angelman syndrome n=16 ataxia telangiectasia n=13 mitochondrial disease n=9 Friedreich ataxia n=7 stroke n=7 and familial genetic episodic ataxia n=7	.
None	17	11	The most common diagnoses known in 129 were Angelman syndrome n=16 ataxia telangiectasia n=13 mitochondrial disease n=9 Friedreich ataxia n=7 stroke n=7 and familial genetic episodic ataxia n=7	.
None	17	23	The most common diagnoses known in 129 were Angelman syndrome n=16 ataxia telangiectasia n=13 mitochondrial disease n=9 Friedreich ataxia n=7 stroke n=7 and familial genetic episodic ataxia n=7	.
None	23	0	Dementia is an exclusion criterion in current consensus diagnostic criteria while growing evidence suggests the occurrence of cognitive dysfunction and even dementia in multiple system atrophy MSA patients	.
None	17	34	Cardiac rhythm disturbances have been described in patients with this disease but it is not known whether myotonic dystrophy type 2 proximal myotonic myopathy patients suffer from dysautonomia and whether cardiac arrhythmias relate to autonomic dysfunction	.
None	21	34	Cardiac rhythm disturbances have been described in patients with this disease but it is not known whether myotonic dystrophy type 2 proximal myotonic myopathy patients suffer from dysautonomia and whether cardiac arrhythmias relate to autonomic dysfunction	.
None	2	5	Children with DD experience both growth and motor developmental delays	.
None	11	4	Affected males presented with mental retardation accompanied by postaxial polydactyly and retinitis pigmentosa	.
None	14	10	Other clinical findings are respiratory rhythm abnormalities abnormal retinal pigmentation mouth tongye facial dyskinesias ptosis polydactyly scoliosis congenital heart defects polycystic kidneys and seizures	.
None	20	22	We report the case of two Egyptian sibling patients suspected of Canavan disease CD showing clinical deterioration white matter degeneration megalencephaly and severe intellectual impairment	.
None	23	12	These include neurofibromatosis tuberous sclerosis Fragile X syndrome other inherited forms of mental retardation cretinism Coffin Lowry syndrome lead poisoning Rett syndrome epilepsy hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy and cerebral palsy	.
None	15	12	These include neurofibromatosis tuberous sclerosis Fragile X syndrome other inherited forms of mental retardation cretinism Coffin Lowry syndrome lead poisoning Rett syndrome epilepsy hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy and cerebral palsy	.
None	18	12	These include neurofibromatosis tuberous sclerosis Fragile X syndrome other inherited forms of mental retardation cretinism Coffin Lowry syndrome lead poisoning Rett syndrome epilepsy hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy and cerebral palsy	.
None	20	12	These include neurofibromatosis tuberous sclerosis Fragile X syndrome other inherited forms of mental retardation cretinism Coffin Lowry syndrome lead poisoning Rett syndrome epilepsy hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy and cerebral palsy	.
None	3	12	These include neurofibromatosis tuberous sclerosis Fragile X syndrome other inherited forms of mental retardation cretinism Coffin Lowry syndrome lead poisoning Rett syndrome epilepsy hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy and cerebral palsy	.
None	10	11	Patient 1 was a 16 year old girl with myopathy cardiomyopathy severe mental retardation and epilepsy	.
None	2	17	Subjects included muscular dystrophy MD spinal muscular atrophy Issacs syndrome idiopathic muscle spasms psychiatric disorders such as autism anschizophrenia and normal controls	.
None	25	27	CMTX1 should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients who present with transient central nervous system phenomena including stroke like episodes tetraparesis suggestive of periodic paralysis dysarthria ataxia or combinations of these deficits	.
None	25	28	CMTX1 should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients who present with transient central nervous system phenomena including stroke like episodes tetraparesis suggestive of periodic paralysis dysarthria ataxia or combinations of these deficits	.
None	25	22	CMTX1 should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients who present with transient central nervous system phenomena including stroke like episodes tetraparesis suggestive of periodic paralysis dysarthria ataxia or combinations of these deficits	.
None	12	5	Less common clinical features include ocular anomalies craniosynostosis mild intellectual disability and choanal atresia	.
None	12	8	Less common clinical features include ocular anomalies craniosynostosis mild intellectual disability and choanal atresia	.
None	7	8	Less common clinical features include ocular anomalies craniosynostosis mild intellectual disability and choanal atresia	.
None	7	5	Less common clinical features include ocular anomalies craniosynostosis mild intellectual disability and choanal atresia	.
None	14	9	Patients with SLC26A4 mutations have variable phenotypes ranging from non syndromic hearing loss to Pendred syndrome	.
None	15	30	Based on these data we propose a phenotype map for several clinical features of the 18p syndrome Round face was tentatively mapped to the distal 1 6 Mb of 18p post natal growth retardation and seizures to the distal 8 Mb and ptosis and short neck to the proximal half of 18p	.
None	42	30	Based on these data we propose a phenotype map for several clinical features of the 18p syndrome Round face was tentatively mapped to the distal 1 6 Mb of 18p post natal growth retardation and seizures to the distal 8 Mb and ptosis and short neck to the proximal half of 18p	.
None	23	35	Here we examined basic face perception Identity Matching face recognition Cambridge Face Memory Task and object recognition Cambridge Car Memory Task in 11 semantic dementia SD patients 8 left lateralised 3 right lateralised and 13 behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD patients compared with 11 controls	.
None	35	23	Here we examined basic face perception Identity Matching face recognition Cambridge Face Memory Task and object recognition Cambridge Car Memory Task in 11 semantic dementia SD patients 8 left lateralised 3 right lateralised and 13 behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD patients compared with 11 controls	.
None	37	23	Here we examined basic face perception Identity Matching face recognition Cambridge Face Memory Task and object recognition Cambridge Car Memory Task in 11 semantic dementia SD patients 8 left lateralised 3 right lateralised and 13 behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD patients compared with 11 controls	.
None	11	8	The most consistently present components include facial deformity mental retardation and Hirschsprung disease	.
None	9	13	We describe an 18 year old male patient with myoclonic astatic epilepsy MAE moderate to severe intellectual disability behavioural problems several dysmorphisms and a 1 2 Mb de novo deletion on chromosome 16p11 2	.
None	9	18	We describe an 18 year old male patient with myoclonic astatic epilepsy MAE moderate to severe intellectual disability behavioural problems several dysmorphisms and a 1 2 Mb de novo deletion on chromosome 16p11 2	.
None	12	24	PATIENT AND METHODS A Turkish boy presented at age 2 months with dilated cardiomyopathy initially worsening then stabilizing in the second year of life growth failure bilateral cryptorchidism and facial dysmorphism	.
None	7	12	Forty percent of the patients had autism atypical autism and 82 had developmental delay	.
None	7	6	Forty percent of the patients had autism atypical autism and 82 had developmental delay	.
None	6	10	AGR syndrome the clinical triad of aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation a subgroup of WAGR syndrome for Wilm s tumor aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation is a rare syndrome caused by a contiguous gene deletion in the 11p13 14 region	.
None	6	10	AGR syndrome the clinical triad of aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation a subgroup of WAGR syndrome for Wilm s tumor aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation is a rare syndrome caused by a contiguous gene deletion in the 11p13 14 region	.
None	6	10	AGR syndrome the clinical triad of aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation a subgroup of WAGR syndrome for Wilm s tumor aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation is a rare syndrome caused by a contiguous gene deletion in the 11p13 14 region	.
None	6	10	AGR syndrome the clinical triad of aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation a subgroup of WAGR syndrome for Wilm s tumor aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation is a rare syndrome caused by a contiguous gene deletion in the 11p13 14 region	.
None	15	10	AGR syndrome the clinical triad of aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation a subgroup of WAGR syndrome for Wilm s tumor aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation is a rare syndrome caused by a contiguous gene deletion in the 11p13 14 region	.
None	23	25	Clinical features were grouped into a core set of eight features cardiac defects non visible hypoplastic thymus or infection problems hypocalcaemia feeding difficulties cleft palate speech language impairment developmental delay learning difficulties characteristic dysmorphic features and other malformations and deformities	.
None	23	28	Clinical features were grouped into a core set of eight features cardiac defects non visible hypoplastic thymus or infection problems hypocalcaemia feeding difficulties cleft palate speech language impairment developmental delay learning difficulties characteristic dysmorphic features and other malformations and deformities	.
None	23	30	Clinical features were grouped into a core set of eight features cardiac defects non visible hypoplastic thymus or infection problems hypocalcaemia feeding difficulties cleft palate speech language impairment developmental delay learning difficulties characteristic dysmorphic features and other malformations and deformities	.
None	24	7	This unique combination of more than one non epileptic movement disorder and epilepsy deserves further semiological and genetic study both for the patients with CLS and for the wider implications	.
None	24	9	This unique combination of more than one non epileptic movement disorder and epilepsy deserves further semiological and genetic study both for the patients with CLS and for the wider implications	.
None	6	9	Here we report a case of Stargardt disease and congenital stationary night blindness CSNB in the same patient and the identification of two novel in frame deletions in the GRM6 gene	.
None	17	5	It is mainly characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability epilepsy facial dysmorphism and various malformations including Hirschsprung disease and corpus callosum anomalies	.
None	36	30	Individuals with terminal and interstitial deletions of chromosome 1p36 have a spectrum of defects that includes eye anomalies postnatal growth deficiency structural brain anomalies seizures cognitive impairment delayed motor development behavior problems hearing loss cardiovascular malformations cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
None	36	32	Individuals with terminal and interstitial deletions of chromosome 1p36 have a spectrum of defects that includes eye anomalies postnatal growth deficiency structural brain anomalies seizures cognitive impairment delayed motor development behavior problems hearing loss cardiovascular malformations cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
None	36	25	Individuals with terminal and interstitial deletions of chromosome 1p36 have a spectrum of defects that includes eye anomalies postnatal growth deficiency structural brain anomalies seizures cognitive impairment delayed motor development behavior problems hearing loss cardiovascular malformations cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
None	36	18	Individuals with terminal and interstitial deletions of chromosome 1p36 have a spectrum of defects that includes eye anomalies postnatal growth deficiency structural brain anomalies seizures cognitive impairment delayed motor development behavior problems hearing loss cardiovascular malformations cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
None	36	27	Individuals with terminal and interstitial deletions of chromosome 1p36 have a spectrum of defects that includes eye anomalies postnatal growth deficiency structural brain anomalies seizures cognitive impairment delayed motor development behavior problems hearing loss cardiovascular malformations cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
None	22	15	This study assessed the effects of atomoxetine on cognitive functions in treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD symptoms in children with CH	.
None	22	13	This study assessed the effects of atomoxetine on cognitive functions in treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD symptoms in children with CH	.
None	31	12	Medical problems commonly caused by terminal deletions of 1p36 include developmental delay intellectual disability seizures vision problems hearing loss short stature distinctive facial features brain anomalies orofacial clefting congenital heart defects cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
None	31	10	Medical problems commonly caused by terminal deletions of 1p36 include developmental delay intellectual disability seizures vision problems hearing loss short stature distinctive facial features brain anomalies orofacial clefting congenital heart defects cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
None	31	15	Medical problems commonly caused by terminal deletions of 1p36 include developmental delay intellectual disability seizures vision problems hearing loss short stature distinctive facial features brain anomalies orofacial clefting congenital heart defects cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
None	31	17	Medical problems commonly caused by terminal deletions of 1p36 include developmental delay intellectual disability seizures vision problems hearing loss short stature distinctive facial features brain anomalies orofacial clefting congenital heart defects cardiomyopathy and renal anomalies	.
None	6	11	We report on 2 children with Townes Brocks syndrome TBS and mental retardation	.
None	13	16	She presented with unilateral ptosis and coloboma of the iris choroid and retina patent ductus arteriosus growth and mental retardation unilateral ear deformity and a hearing loss	.
None	13	25	She presented with unilateral ptosis and coloboma of the iris choroid and retina patent ductus arteriosus growth and mental retardation unilateral ear deformity and a hearing loss	.
None	13	19	CASES REPORTS  The first patient was a 52 year old woman diagnosed with Treacher Collins syndrome who presented with severe bilateral mixed hearing loss and a history of unsuccessful previous use of a bone contact conduction device	.
None	19	11	Partial trisomy 8q is rare and has distinctive clinical features including severe mental retardation growth impairment dysmorphic facial appearances cleft palate congenital heart disease and urogenital anomalies	.
None	19	14	Partial trisomy 8q is rare and has distinctive clinical features including severe mental retardation growth impairment dysmorphic facial appearances cleft palate congenital heart disease and urogenital anomalies	.
None	19	12	Partial trisomy 8q is rare and has distinctive clinical features including severe mental retardation growth impairment dysmorphic facial appearances cleft palate congenital heart disease and urogenital anomalies	.
None	15	12	CASE REPORT A 21 year old woman presented with seizures mental retardation spastic diplegia and ichthyosis since birth	.
None	15	10	CASE REPORT A 21 year old woman presented with seizures mental retardation spastic diplegia and ichthyosis since birth	.
None	51	28	Late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia appear to belong to the same clinical and molecular continuum and should be considered together as delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia As the most frequently inherited ataxia Friedreich s ataxia should be considered facing compatible pictures including atypical phenotypes spastic ataxia retained reflexes lack of dysarthria and lack of extraneurological signs delayed disease onset even after 60 years of age and or slow disease progression	.
None	51	0	Late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia appear to belong to the same clinical and molecular continuum and should be considered together as delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia As the most frequently inherited ataxia Friedreich s ataxia should be considered facing compatible pictures including atypical phenotypes spastic ataxia retained reflexes lack of dysarthria and lack of extraneurological signs delayed disease onset even after 60 years of age and or slow disease progression	.
None	51	6	Late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia appear to belong to the same clinical and molecular continuum and should be considered together as delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia As the most frequently inherited ataxia Friedreich s ataxia should be considered facing compatible pictures including atypical phenotypes spastic ataxia retained reflexes lack of dysarthria and lack of extraneurological signs delayed disease onset even after 60 years of age and or slow disease progression	.
None	51	37	Late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia appear to belong to the same clinical and molecular continuum and should be considered together as delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia As the most frequently inherited ataxia Friedreich s ataxia should be considered facing compatible pictures including atypical phenotypes spastic ataxia retained reflexes lack of dysarthria and lack of extraneurological signs delayed disease onset even after 60 years of age and or slow disease progression	.
None	51	57	Late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia appear to belong to the same clinical and molecular continuum and should be considered together as delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia As the most frequently inherited ataxia Friedreich s ataxia should be considered facing compatible pictures including atypical phenotypes spastic ataxia retained reflexes lack of dysarthria and lack of extraneurological signs delayed disease onset even after 60 years of age and or slow disease progression	.
None	20	29	SUMMARY OF KEY POINTS Barth Syndrome is an unusual pediatric cardiovascular and neuromuscular disorder with a combination of features including dilated cardiomyopathy persistent aciduria skeletal myopathy severe neutropenia and growth retardation	.
None	12	38	Owing to the unknown pathogenesis of the progressive hearing loss seen in CINCA syndrome and the limited effectiveness of anakinra in reversing the progressive hearing loss we suggest that cochlear implantation is the modality of choice in rehabilitating severe to profound hearing loss not responsive to anakinra	.
None	12	7	Owing to the unknown pathogenesis of the progressive hearing loss seen in CINCA syndrome and the limited effectiveness of anakinra in reversing the progressive hearing loss we suggest that cochlear implantation is the modality of choice in rehabilitating severe to profound hearing loss not responsive to anakinra	.
None	19	5	Aicardi syndrome AS is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by the triad of corpus callosum agenesis chorioretinal lacunae and infantile spasms	.
None	13	17	Danon disease is an extremely rare X linked dominant disorder characterized by progressive cardiomyopathy muscle weakness and mild mental retardation	.
None	27	13	Kabuki syndrome KS is a rare genetic condition characterized by a distinctive facies intellectual disability growth delay and a variety of skeletal visceral and other anomalies including anorectal malformations ARMs	.
None	27	15	Kabuki syndrome KS is a rare genetic condition characterized by a distinctive facies intellectual disability growth delay and a variety of skeletal visceral and other anomalies including anorectal malformations ARMs	.
None	23	27	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS the result of an interstitial deletion within chromosome 17p11 2 is a disorder that may include minor dysmorphic features brachydactyly short stature hypotonia speech delays cognitive deficits signs of peripheral neuropathy scoliosis and neurobehavioral problems including sleep disturbances and maladaptive repetitive and self injurious behaviors	.
None	23	40	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS the result of an interstitial deletion within chromosome 17p11 2 is a disorder that may include minor dysmorphic features brachydactyly short stature hypotonia speech delays cognitive deficits signs of peripheral neuropathy scoliosis and neurobehavioral problems including sleep disturbances and maladaptive repetitive and self injurious behaviors	.
None	23	29	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS the result of an interstitial deletion within chromosome 17p11 2 is a disorder that may include minor dysmorphic features brachydactyly short stature hypotonia speech delays cognitive deficits signs of peripheral neuropathy scoliosis and neurobehavioral problems including sleep disturbances and maladaptive repetitive and self injurious behaviors	.
None	23	43	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS the result of an interstitial deletion within chromosome 17p11 2 is a disorder that may include minor dysmorphic features brachydactyly short stature hypotonia speech delays cognitive deficits signs of peripheral neuropathy scoliosis and neurobehavioral problems including sleep disturbances and maladaptive repetitive and self injurious behaviors	.
None	12	26	We report a patient with non Down syndrome AML also known as AMKL with monosomy 7 who was also obese and had a hearing impairment and mental retardation	.
None	12	23	We report a patient with non Down syndrome AML also known as AMKL with monosomy 7 who was also obese and had a hearing impairment and mental retardation	.
None	16	23	Although the patient groups showed distinct atrophy patterns with significantly more severe frontal GM loss in bvFTD we found similar neural correlates of limb apraxia within posterior brain regions for both dementia subtypes limb imitation was associated with bilateral atrophy of superior inferior and medial parietal cortex	.
None	5	16	The neuropsychological pattern in possible bvFTD and pre bvFTD was similar although possible bvFTD showed more behavioral abnormalities	.
None	35	37	RESULTS Delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia had less frequently dysarthria abolished tendon reflexes extensor plantar reflexes weakness amyotrophy ganglionopathy cerebellar atrophy scoliosis and cardiomyopathy than typical onset Friedreich s ataxia along with less severe functional disability and shorter GAA expansion on the smaller allele P < 0 001	.
None	35	6	RESULTS Delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia had less frequently dysarthria abolished tendon reflexes extensor plantar reflexes weakness amyotrophy ganglionopathy cerebellar atrophy scoliosis and cardiomyopathy than typical onset Friedreich s ataxia along with less severe functional disability and shorter GAA expansion on the smaller allele P < 0 001	.
None	35	45	RESULTS Delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia had less frequently dysarthria abolished tendon reflexes extensor plantar reflexes weakness amyotrophy ganglionopathy cerebellar atrophy scoliosis and cardiomyopathy than typical onset Friedreich s ataxia along with less severe functional disability and shorter GAA expansion on the smaller allele P < 0 001	.
None	35	21	RESULTS Delayed onset Friedreich s ataxia late onset Friedreich s ataxia and very late onset Friedreich s ataxia had less frequently dysarthria abolished tendon reflexes extensor plantar reflexes weakness amyotrophy ganglionopathy cerebellar atrophy scoliosis and cardiomyopathy than typical onset Friedreich s ataxia along with less severe functional disability and shorter GAA expansion on the smaller allele P < 0 001	.
None	28	25	Patients with 22q11 2 deletion exhibited facial dysmorphic features 82 congenital heart defects 70 immunological problems 47 multiple congenital anomalies 64 hypocalcemia 47 mental retardation learning difficulties 35 cleft palate velopharyngeal insufficiency 23 5 seizures hypotonia 23 and growth retardation 12	.
None	28	23	Patients with 22q11 2 deletion exhibited facial dysmorphic features 82 congenital heart defects 70 immunological problems 47 multiple congenital anomalies 64 hypocalcemia 47 mental retardation learning difficulties 35 cleft palate velopharyngeal insufficiency 23 5 seizures hypotonia 23 and growth retardation 12	.
None	28	38	Patients with 22q11 2 deletion exhibited facial dysmorphic features 82 congenital heart defects 70 immunological problems 47 multiple congenital anomalies 64 hypocalcemia 47 mental retardation learning difficulties 35 cleft palate velopharyngeal insufficiency 23 5 seizures hypotonia 23 and growth retardation 12	.
None	9	18	Joubert syndrome JS is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous ciliopathy characterized by episodic hyperpnea and apnea hypotonia ataxia cognitive impairment and ocular motor apraxia	.
None	9	17	Joubert syndrome JS is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous ciliopathy characterized by episodic hyperpnea and apnea hypotonia ataxia cognitive impairment and ocular motor apraxia	.
None	9	21	Joubert syndrome JS is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous ciliopathy characterized by episodic hyperpnea and apnea hypotonia ataxia cognitive impairment and ocular motor apraxia	.
None	14	8	Students at two schools one for children with hearing impairment were screened for cataract congenital glaucoma and pigmentary retinopathy	.
None	20	8	Although the phenotypic features of the patient including psychomotor developmental delay distinctive features and mild thrombocytopenia were consistent with JBS congenital glaucoma which is an uncommon finding of JBS was the most prominent condition during her natural history	.
None	7	3	The patient presented psychomotor regression late onset leukodystrophy peripheral neuropathy hearing impairment a renal cyst and renal hypertension and survived until the age of 36	.
None	7	10	The patient presented psychomotor regression late onset leukodystrophy peripheral neuropathy hearing impairment a renal cyst and renal hypertension and survived until the age of 36	.
None	21	22	We report a case of SLS in an 11 month old girl of Lebanese and Mexican Syrian ancestry who presented with ichthyosis developmental delay and spasticity	.
None	23	11	Whereas the time frame for the development of therapies for some retinal dystrophies may be in the years hence gene therapy trials for choroideremia have started in the United Kingdom and results are pending	.
None	17	10	Shprintzen Goldberg syndrome SGS is characterized by severe marfanoid habitus intellectual disability camptodactyly typical facial dysmorphism and craniosynostosis	.
None	20	0	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 SCA7 in which the degenerative process also affect the retina belongs to the category of the autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type II ADCA II	.
None	19	8	CASE REPORT A Japanese male patient presented with sensory deafness blue irises and anosmia but no hair skin hypopigmentation Hirschsprung disease or neurological abnormalities	.
None	29	7	In addition to severe developmental retardation hypotonia postnatal growth retardation microcephaly abnormal breathing and characteristic dysmorphic features both had epilepsy and intestinal problems with severe constipation in one and Hirschsprung disease in the other	.
None	29	3	In addition to severe developmental retardation hypotonia postnatal growth retardation microcephaly abnormal breathing and characteristic dysmorphic features both had epilepsy and intestinal problems with severe constipation in one and Hirschsprung disease in the other	.
None	34	30	We report a de novo heterozygous 5 013 940 bp terminal deletion of chromosome 15q26 in a 13 9 12 year old Japanese girl with short stature 3 9 SD mild mental retardation and ventricular septal defect VSD	.
None	10	30	We report a de novo heterozygous 5 013 940 bp terminal deletion of chromosome 15q26 in a 13 9 12 year old Japanese girl with short stature 3 9 SD mild mental retardation and ventricular septal defect VSD	.
None	0	5	Leber hereditary optic neuropathy LHON acute or subacute vision loss due to retinal ganglion cell death which in the long run leads to optic nerve atrophy is one of the most widely studied maternally inherited diseases caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA	.
None	3	20	The term pre bvFTD was adopted for patients with cognitive and or behavioral impairment not fulfilling bvFTD criteria and no deficits in activities of daily living	.
None	3	9	The term pre bvFTD was adopted for patients with cognitive and or behavioral impairment not fulfilling bvFTD criteria and no deficits in activities of daily living	.
None	9	17	The clinical features shared by our patients were coloboma VSD digital abnormalities congenital dislocation of a hip feeding problems psychomotor delay and convulsions	.
None	9	19	The clinical features shared by our patients were coloboma VSD digital abnormalities congenital dislocation of a hip feeding problems psychomotor delay and convulsions	.
None	3	14	In addition to HMSN and optic atrophy a 20 year old man suffered from sensorineural deafness	.
None	3	11	We identified 2 AHDS patients with developmental delays truncal hypotonia and spastic paraplegia	.
None	3	6	We identified 2 AHDS patients with developmental delays truncal hypotonia and spastic paraplegia	.
None	32	28	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
None	32	13	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
None	32	35	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
None	30	13	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
None	30	28	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
None	30	35	Mandibulofacial dysostosis Guion Almeida type MFDGA is a recently delineated multiple congenital anomalies mental retardation syndrome characterized by the association of mandibulofacial dysostosis MFD with external ear malformations hearing loss cleft palate choanal atresia microcephaly intellectual disability oesophageal atresia OA congenital heart defects CHDs and radial ray defects	.
None	21	14	One aim of the present report was to work out the clinical appearance of hearing loss compared to hearing loss in Alport s syndrome	.
None	7	11	We report three Tunisian patients affected by congenital muscular dystrophy with mental retardation and cerebellar cysts on cranial magnetic resonance imaging	.
None	24	10	Previous research has suggested that the pattern and severity of cognitive deficits in people with severe chronic schizophrenia is similar to that observed in behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD	.
None	21	7	In addition to severe growth retardation and moderate psychomotor delay he presented a dysmorphic syndrome compatible with the clinical diagnostic of Aarskog syndrome	.
None	21	3	In addition to severe growth retardation and moderate psychomotor delay he presented a dysmorphic syndrome compatible with the clinical diagnostic of Aarskog syndrome	.
None	21	12	Here we report on the fourth male patient presenting with brain anomaly intellectual disability growth retardation ectodermal dysplasia vertebral skeletal anomaly Hirschsprung disease low set and large ears cryptorchidism and small kidneys	.
None	21	14	Here we report on the fourth male patient presenting with brain anomaly intellectual disability growth retardation ectodermal dysplasia vertebral skeletal anomaly Hirschsprung disease low set and large ears cryptorchidism and small kidneys	.
None	16	12	Here we report on the fourth male patient presenting with brain anomaly intellectual disability growth retardation ectodermal dysplasia vertebral skeletal anomaly Hirschsprung disease low set and large ears cryptorchidism and small kidneys	.
None	16	14	Here we report on the fourth male patient presenting with brain anomaly intellectual disability growth retardation ectodermal dysplasia vertebral skeletal anomaly Hirschsprung disease low set and large ears cryptorchidism and small kidneys	.
None	27	19	Costello syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome caused by heterozygous germline HRAS mutations which is characterized by intellectual disability growth retardation distinctive facies loose skin cardiomyopathy and a preposition to malignancies	.
None	27	21	Costello syndrome is a rare multiple congenital anomaly syndrome caused by heterozygous germline HRAS mutations which is characterized by intellectual disability growth retardation distinctive facies loose skin cardiomyopathy and a preposition to malignancies	.
None	22	8	On the other hand decreased activity leads to X linked nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness DFNX 2 Charcot Marie Tooth disease 5 CMTX5 and Arts syndrome depending on the residual activity of PRS I	.
None	23	8	AIM We aimed to investigate the relationship between movement disorders changes on brain magnetic resonance imaging MRI and vigabatrin therapy in children with infantile spasms	.
None	12	16	The first case is an 8 5 year old girl with an inv dup 15 syndrome mental retardation and dysmorphic features	.
None	9	19	The grandson the proband presented as a teenager with progressive myoclonic epilepsy dysarthria ataxia and cognitive decline having manifesting learning difficulties from the age 5 years	.
None	9	12	The grandson the proband presented as a teenager with progressive myoclonic epilepsy dysarthria ataxia and cognitive decline having manifesting learning difficulties from the age 5 years	.
None	9	15	The grandson the proband presented as a teenager with progressive myoclonic epilepsy dysarthria ataxia and cognitive decline having manifesting learning difficulties from the age 5 years	.
None	9	13	The grandson the proband presented as a teenager with progressive myoclonic epilepsy dysarthria ataxia and cognitive decline having manifesting learning difficulties from the age 5 years	.
None	23	16	To review what progress has been made towards the application of ocular gene therapy to prevent progressive vision loss in patients affected by choroideremia	.
None	6	8	Clinical features were characterized by neuroregression retinitis pigmentosa hearing loss peripheral neuropathy and white matter signal changes on magnetic resonance imaging	.
None	16	7	The typical clinical features in JBS include intellectual disability growth retardation craniofacial dysmorphism as well as craniosynostosis congenital heart disease and platelet abnormalities	.
None	16	9	The typical clinical features in JBS include intellectual disability growth retardation craniofacial dysmorphism as well as craniosynostosis congenital heart disease and platelet abnormalities	.
None	17	20	Recessive mutations of the SLC26A4 PDS gene on chromosome 7q31 can cause sensorineural hearing loss with goiter Pendred syndrome or non syndromic autosomal recessive hearing loss DFNB4	.
None	25	41	BACKGROUND Histopathological examinations and computed tomographic scans of the temporal bone in patients with the CHARGE association a malformative syndrome that includes coloboma heart disease choanal atresia retarded development genital hypoplasia and ear anomalies including hypoplasia of the external ear and hearing loss have shown an absence of semicircular canals and a Mondini form of cochlear dysplasia	.
None	25	27	BACKGROUND Histopathological examinations and computed tomographic scans of the temporal bone in patients with the CHARGE association a malformative syndrome that includes coloboma heart disease choanal atresia retarded development genital hypoplasia and ear anomalies including hypoplasia of the external ear and hearing loss have shown an absence of semicircular canals and a Mondini form of cochlear dysplasia	.
None	17	14	Recently the EFTUD2 gene was identified in patients with mandibulofacial dysostosis associated with microcephaly intellectual disability and esophageal atresia	.
None	19	9	The lack of cardiovascular disease specific ocular anomalies and mental retardation are presented in the differential diagnosis of the C C A syndrome with Marfan s syndrome and homocystinuria	.
None	19	5	The lack of cardiovascular disease specific ocular anomalies and mental retardation are presented in the differential diagnosis of the C C A syndrome with Marfan s syndrome and homocystinuria	.
None	24	9	The lack of cardiovascular disease specific ocular anomalies and mental retardation are presented in the differential diagnosis of the C C A syndrome with Marfan s syndrome and homocystinuria	.
None	24	5	The lack of cardiovascular disease specific ocular anomalies and mental retardation are presented in the differential diagnosis of the C C A syndrome with Marfan s syndrome and homocystinuria	.
None	29	31	Costello syndrome is a type of RASopathy mapped to HRAS gene in chromosome 11 characterized by prenatal overgrowth postnatal failure to thrive classic facial gestalt and multisystem involvement including cardiomyopathy and intellectual disability	.
None	12	2	Manifestations include severe developmental delay rounded face sparse hair ear anomalies hypertelorism cleft soft palate a thin vermilion border of the upper lip and left renal dysgenesis	.
None	33	15	Recently mutations in SOX10 a well known causative gene of Waardenburg syndrome WS characterized by deafness skin hair iris hypopigmentation Hirschsprung disease and neurological defects have been identified in a few patients with KS and deafness	.
None	33	15	Recently mutations in SOX10 a well known causative gene of Waardenburg syndrome WS characterized by deafness skin hair iris hypopigmentation Hirschsprung disease and neurological defects have been identified in a few patients with KS and deafness	.
None	10	15	Recently mutations in SOX10 a well known causative gene of Waardenburg syndrome WS characterized by deafness skin hair iris hypopigmentation Hirschsprung disease and neurological defects have been identified in a few patients with KS and deafness	.
None	20	15	Recently mutations in SOX10 a well known causative gene of Waardenburg syndrome WS characterized by deafness skin hair iris hypopigmentation Hirschsprung disease and neurological defects have been identified in a few patients with KS and deafness	.
None	18	6	The index patient displayed craniofacial dysmorphisms mild mental retardation and postnatal growth retardation muscular hypotonia mild periventricular leukodystrophy patent ductus arteriosus thrombocytopenia recurrent infections inguinal hernia cryptorchidism pes equinovarus and hearing deficiencies	.
None	18	10	The index patient displayed craniofacial dysmorphisms mild mental retardation and postnatal growth retardation muscular hypotonia mild periventricular leukodystrophy patent ductus arteriosus thrombocytopenia recurrent infections inguinal hernia cryptorchidism pes equinovarus and hearing deficiencies	.
None	18	30	The index patient displayed craniofacial dysmorphisms mild mental retardation and postnatal growth retardation muscular hypotonia mild periventricular leukodystrophy patent ductus arteriosus thrombocytopenia recurrent infections inguinal hernia cryptorchidism pes equinovarus and hearing deficiencies	.
None	22	26	Because Danon disease is inherited in an X linked dominant fashion males are more severely affected than females who usually have only cardiomyopathy without myopathy or intellectual disability moreover the onset of symptoms in females is usually in adulthood	.
None	1	26	Because Danon disease is inherited in an X linked dominant fashion males are more severely affected than females who usually have only cardiomyopathy without myopathy or intellectual disability moreover the onset of symptoms in females is usually in adulthood	.
None	36	27	Mutations in the human mitochondrial ATP6 gene encoding ATP synthase subunit a 6 referred to as Atp6p in yeast are at the base of neurodegenerative disorders like Neurogenic Ataxia and Retinitis Pigmentosa NARP Leigh syndrome LS Charcot Marie Tooth CMT and ataxia telangiectasia	.
None	36	41	Mutations in the human mitochondrial ATP6 gene encoding ATP synthase subunit a 6 referred to as Atp6p in yeast are at the base of neurodegenerative disorders like Neurogenic Ataxia and Retinitis Pigmentosa NARP Leigh syndrome LS Charcot Marie Tooth CMT and ataxia telangiectasia	.
None	33	27	Mutations in the human mitochondrial ATP6 gene encoding ATP synthase subunit a 6 referred to as Atp6p in yeast are at the base of neurodegenerative disorders like Neurogenic Ataxia and Retinitis Pigmentosa NARP Leigh syndrome LS Charcot Marie Tooth CMT and ataxia telangiectasia	.
None	33	41	Mutations in the human mitochondrial ATP6 gene encoding ATP synthase subunit a 6 referred to as Atp6p in yeast are at the base of neurodegenerative disorders like Neurogenic Ataxia and Retinitis Pigmentosa NARP Leigh syndrome LS Charcot Marie Tooth CMT and ataxia telangiectasia	.
None	28	20	Partial deletion of the long arm of the chromosome 13 13q deletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal disorder characterized by severe growth and mental retardation microcephaly facial dysmorphism brain malformations holoprosencephaly Dandy Walker malformation distal limb defects eye anomalies genitourinary and gastrointestinal tract malformations Hirschsprung s disease	.
None	30	20	Partial deletion of the long arm of the chromosome 13 13q deletion syndrome is a rare chromosomal disorder characterized by severe growth and mental retardation microcephaly facial dysmorphism brain malformations holoprosencephaly Dandy Walker malformation distal limb defects eye anomalies genitourinary and gastrointestinal tract malformations Hirschsprung s disease	.
None	36	55	RESULTS Twenty six participants 23 of total sample screened positive for prior DV with one or more of the following delayed early motor and or language milestones that required intervention n = 17 prior diagnosis of Down syndrome n = 3 prior diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder n = 1 prior diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and or learning disability n = 6 or prior neurological conditions n = 5	.
None	36	53	RESULTS Twenty six participants 23 of total sample screened positive for prior DV with one or more of the following delayed early motor and or language milestones that required intervention n = 17 prior diagnosis of Down syndrome n = 3 prior diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder n = 1 prior diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and or learning disability n = 6 or prior neurological conditions n = 5	.
None	36	44	RESULTS Twenty six participants 23 of total sample screened positive for prior DV with one or more of the following delayed early motor and or language milestones that required intervention n = 17 prior diagnosis of Down syndrome n = 3 prior diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder n = 1 prior diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and or learning disability n = 6 or prior neurological conditions n = 5	.
None	36	59	RESULTS Twenty six participants 23 of total sample screened positive for prior DV with one or more of the following delayed early motor and or language milestones that required intervention n = 17 prior diagnosis of Down syndrome n = 3 prior diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder n = 1 prior diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and or learning disability n = 6 or prior neurological conditions n = 5	.
None	13	5	We describe a girl with motor and mental retardation macrocephaly a coarse face choanal atresia postnatal feeding difficulty redundant skin with deep palmar and plantar creases and histopathological evidence of altered elastic fibers who died at the age of 11 months	.
None	11	41	We retrospectively reviewed 80 patients with nonsyndromic mitochondrial cytopathies ie not Kearns Sayre syndrome myoclonus epilepsy associated with ragged red fibers MERRF mitochondrial encephalomyopathy lactic acidosis and strokelike episodes MELAS neuropathy ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa Leigh disease maternally inherited diabetes and deafness and myoneurogastrointestinal disorder and encephalopathy and found 10 cases of optic nerve hypoplasia	.
None	11	30	We retrospectively reviewed 80 patients with nonsyndromic mitochondrial cytopathies ie not Kearns Sayre syndrome myoclonus epilepsy associated with ragged red fibers MERRF mitochondrial encephalomyopathy lactic acidosis and strokelike episodes MELAS neuropathy ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa Leigh disease maternally inherited diabetes and deafness and myoneurogastrointestinal disorder and encephalopathy and found 10 cases of optic nerve hypoplasia	.
None	29	41	We retrospectively reviewed 80 patients with nonsyndromic mitochondrial cytopathies ie not Kearns Sayre syndrome myoclonus epilepsy associated with ragged red fibers MERRF mitochondrial encephalomyopathy lactic acidosis and strokelike episodes MELAS neuropathy ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa Leigh disease maternally inherited diabetes and deafness and myoneurogastrointestinal disorder and encephalopathy and found 10 cases of optic nerve hypoplasia	.
None	29	30	We retrospectively reviewed 80 patients with nonsyndromic mitochondrial cytopathies ie not Kearns Sayre syndrome myoclonus epilepsy associated with ragged red fibers MERRF mitochondrial encephalomyopathy lactic acidosis and strokelike episodes MELAS neuropathy ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa Leigh disease maternally inherited diabetes and deafness and myoneurogastrointestinal disorder and encephalopathy and found 10 cases of optic nerve hypoplasia	.
None	33	30	We retrospectively reviewed 80 patients with nonsyndromic mitochondrial cytopathies ie not Kearns Sayre syndrome myoclonus epilepsy associated with ragged red fibers MERRF mitochondrial encephalomyopathy lactic acidosis and strokelike episodes MELAS neuropathy ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa Leigh disease maternally inherited diabetes and deafness and myoneurogastrointestinal disorder and encephalopathy and found 10 cases of optic nerve hypoplasia	.
None	33	41	We retrospectively reviewed 80 patients with nonsyndromic mitochondrial cytopathies ie not Kearns Sayre syndrome myoclonus epilepsy associated with ragged red fibers MERRF mitochondrial encephalomyopathy lactic acidosis and strokelike episodes MELAS neuropathy ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa Leigh disease maternally inherited diabetes and deafness and myoneurogastrointestinal disorder and encephalopathy and found 10 cases of optic nerve hypoplasia	.
None	21	15	Typically the deletions span <10 Mb of 1pter 1p36 23 and result in mental retardation developmental delay sensorineural hearing loss seizures cardiomyopathy and cardiovascular malformations and distinct facies including large anterior fontanel deep set eyes straight eyebrows flat nasal bridge asymmetric ears and pointed chin	.
None	21	13	Typically the deletions span <10 Mb of 1pter 1p36 23 and result in mental retardation developmental delay sensorineural hearing loss seizures cardiomyopathy and cardiovascular malformations and distinct facies including large anterior fontanel deep set eyes straight eyebrows flat nasal bridge asymmetric ears and pointed chin	.
None	21	17	Typically the deletions span <10 Mb of 1pter 1p36 23 and result in mental retardation developmental delay sensorineural hearing loss seizures cardiomyopathy and cardiovascular malformations and distinct facies including large anterior fontanel deep set eyes straight eyebrows flat nasal bridge asymmetric ears and pointed chin	.
None	19	37	Cognitive testing revealed that 184 patients 51 5 had ALS with normal cognition 51 14 3 had ALS with FTD 103 28 9 had ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and 19 5 3 had ALS with behavioral impairment	.
None	9	37	Cognitive testing revealed that 184 patients 51 5 had ALS with normal cognition 51 14 3 had ALS with FTD 103 28 9 had ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and 19 5 3 had ALS with behavioral impairment	.
None	9	37	Cognitive testing revealed that 184 patients 51 5 had ALS with normal cognition 51 14 3 had ALS with FTD 103 28 9 had ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and 19 5 3 had ALS with behavioral impairment	.
None	9	37	Cognitive testing revealed that 184 patients 51 5 had ALS with normal cognition 51 14 3 had ALS with FTD 103 28 9 had ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and 19 5 3 had ALS with behavioral impairment	.
None	17	2	Furthermore while growth failure and mental retardation are primarily explained by loss of IGF1R the occurrence of VSD might suggest the existence of a cardiac anomaly gene other than the candidate cardiac anomaly gene NR2F2 in the deleted region	.
None	17	5	Furthermore while growth failure and mental retardation are primarily explained by loss of IGF1R the occurrence of VSD might suggest the existence of a cardiac anomaly gene other than the candidate cardiac anomaly gene NR2F2 in the deleted region	.
None	2	18	Considering that CADASIL is a progressive disease with deteriorating patients QOL physicians have to pay more attention to emotional problems in CADASIL patients	.
None	25	21	CONCLUSIONS These findings demonstrate that DLG4 gene disruption in mice produces a complex range of behavioral and molecular abnormalities relevant to autism spectrum disorders and Williams syndrome	.
None	16	13	Besides tapetoretinal degeneration additional symptoms are anosmia skeletal malformations chronic polyneuropathy cerebellar ataxia sensorineural hearing loss ichthyosis and cardiac abnormalities	.
None	16	1	Besides tapetoretinal degeneration additional symptoms are anosmia skeletal malformations chronic polyneuropathy cerebellar ataxia sensorineural hearing loss ichthyosis and cardiac abnormalities	.
None	16	11	Besides tapetoretinal degeneration additional symptoms are anosmia skeletal malformations chronic polyneuropathy cerebellar ataxia sensorineural hearing loss ichthyosis and cardiac abnormalities	.
None	29	7	Mowat Wilson syndrome MWS is characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability and distinctive facial features in association with variable structural congenital anomalies clinical features including congenital heart disease Hirschsprung disease hypospadias agenesis of the corpus callosum short stature epilepsy and microcephaly	.
None	16	26	Two patients were diagnosed as having secondary distal renal acidosis due to a genetic disorder called osteopetrosis they are brothers and their audiograms showed a mild conductive hearing loss of an average 35 dB bilaterally	.
None	14	11	In his mother s cousin who bears the identical unbalanced translocation mild mental retardation patent ductus arteriosus hypogammaglobulinemia recurrent infections unilateral kidney hypoplasia pes equinovarus and hearing deficiencies were reported	.
None	14	26	In his mother s cousin who bears the identical unbalanced translocation mild mental retardation patent ductus arteriosus hypogammaglobulinemia recurrent infections unilateral kidney hypoplasia pes equinovarus and hearing deficiencies were reported	.
None	33	11	It is characterized by a distinctive facial appearance in association with intellectual disability ID and variable other features including agenesis of the corpus callosum seizures congenital heart defects microcephaly short stature hypotonia and Hirschsprung disease	.
None	7	21	2 Only one third of patients with Norrie disease have sensorineural deafness and approximately one half of the affected individuals exhibit mental retardation often with psychotic features	.
None	13	19	A follow up of seven patients with the autosomal recessive inherited syndrome of distal renal tubular acidosis RTA and sensorineural hearing loss is described	.
None	14	18	The second patient was a 14 year old girl who was also diagnosed with Treacher Collins Syndrome with bilateral moderate conductive hearing loss by audiometry	.
None	18	1	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia and cardiomyopathy	.
None	18	15	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia and cardiomyopathy	.
None	11	20	A 56 year old man with the prototypic skeletal defects of cleidocranial dysplasia and a RUNX2 deletion presented with a progressive cognitive decline after the age of 40 years	.
None	21	13	The differential diagnosis of cutis laxa in association with postnatal growth retardation and developmental delay and with cardio facio cutaneous and Noonan syndromes is discussed	.
None	21	9	The differential diagnosis of cutis laxa in association with postnatal growth retardation and developmental delay and with cardio facio cutaneous and Noonan syndromes is discussed	.
None	12	5	The investigations demonstrated truncated obesity sensorineural deafness and impaired glucose tolerance and Alstrom syndrome was diagnosed	.
None	25	14	OBJECTIVE To assess the influence of the apolipoprotein E APOE and C9ORF72 genotypes on cognitive impairment in a population based series of Italian patients with ALS	.
None	25	17	Genotypephenotype analysis confirmed that ZFHX1B deletions and stop mutations result in a recognizable facial dysmorphism with associated severe mental retardation and variable malformations such as Hirschsprung disease and congenital heart defects	.
None	19	23	In one patient earlier onset before the age of 2 years was associated with a more complex clinical picture with abnormal eye movements progressive cognitive impairment and a more rapid and severe course	.
None	19	22	In one patient earlier onset before the age of 2 years was associated with a more complex clinical picture with abnormal eye movements progressive cognitive impairment and a more rapid and severe course	.
None	37	25	CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS Coffin Siris syndrome CSS is classically characterized by aplasia or hypoplasia of the distal phalanx or nail of the fifth and additional digits developmental or cognitive delay of varying degree distinctive facial features hypotonia hirutism hypertrichosis and sparse scalp hair	.
None	5	28	Findings from studies of other genetic dementias have shown neuroimaging and cognitive changes before symptoms onset and we aimed to identify whether such changes could be shown in frontotemporal dementia	.
None	28	5	Findings from studies of other genetic dementias have shown neuroimaging and cognitive changes before symptoms onset and we aimed to identify whether such changes could be shown in frontotemporal dementia	.
None	34	32	Mutations in the pantothenate kinase 2 gene PANK2 are the cause of pantothenate kinase associated neurodegeneration PKAN an autosomal recessive AR disorder characterized by motor symptoms as such as dystonia or parkinsonism mental retardation retinitis pigmentosa and iron accumulation in the brain	.
None	38	23	We report two family cases of two sisters and two brothers with homocystinuria revealed by lenticular dislocation into the anterior chamber associated with mental and growth retardation and an isolated case of homocystinuria revealed by poor vision with Marfan syndrome and mental retardation	.
None	38	23	We report two family cases of two sisters and two brothers with homocystinuria revealed by lenticular dislocation into the anterior chamber associated with mental and growth retardation and an isolated case of homocystinuria revealed by poor vision with Marfan syndrome and mental retardation	.
None	5	10	The patient had hyperCKemia hypertrophic cardiomyopathy no muscle weakness and slight mental impairment	.
None	4	10	The patient had hyperCKemia hypertrophic cardiomyopathy no muscle weakness and slight mental impairment	.
None	3	9	This combination of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy with spastic paraplegia and optic atrophy shows features of both hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy V and VI according to the classification of Dyck indicating that these subtypes may not represent distinct entities	.
None	3	12	This combination of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy with spastic paraplegia and optic atrophy shows features of both hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy V and VI according to the classification of Dyck indicating that these subtypes may not represent distinct entities	.
None	12	19	For respiratory management it is important to regularly evaluate respiratory function in FCMD patients over 10years of age since intellectual impairment and insomnia often mask the signs of respiratory dysfunction	.
None	26	11	We describe arginase deficiency in a 20 year old woman with spastic paraplegia progressive dystonia dementia peripheral neuropathy epilepsy liver cirrhosis and non B non C hepatocellular carcinoma	.
None	26	15	We describe arginase deficiency in a 20 year old woman with spastic paraplegia progressive dystonia dementia peripheral neuropathy epilepsy liver cirrhosis and non B non C hepatocellular carcinoma	.
None	24	20	Muckle Wells syndrome MWS is an autoinflammatory disease characterized by excessive interleukin 1 IL 1 release resulting in recurrent fevers sensorineural hearing loss and amyloidosis	.
None	7	14	Deletion of Lgr4 in mouse led to aniridia polycystic kidney disease genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation similar to the pathological defects of AGR syndrome	.
None	18	15	INTRODUCTION Joubert syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder whose main clinical signs are hypotonia ataxia mental retardation abnormal eye movements and a respiratory pattern of alternating tachypnea apnea during first months of life	.
None	18	16	INTRODUCTION Joubert syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder whose main clinical signs are hypotonia ataxia mental retardation abnormal eye movements and a respiratory pattern of alternating tachypnea apnea during first months of life	.
None	14	16	CONCLUSIONS These results highlight the significance of SOX10 haploinsufficiency as a genetic cause of KS with deafness	.
None	27	15	We find the most frequent features in 22q11 distal deletion to be developmental delay or learning disability short stature microcephalus premature birth with low birth weight and congenital heart malformation ranging from minor anomalies to complex malformations	.
None	27	12	We find the most frequent features in 22q11 distal deletion to be developmental delay or learning disability short stature microcephalus premature birth with low birth weight and congenital heart malformation ranging from minor anomalies to complex malformations	.
None	10	34	CHARGE association CA consists of a non random association of ocular coloboma C heart anomaly H atresia of choanae A retarded growth and or development R genital hypoplasia G and ear anomalies and or hearing impairment E	.
None	10	20	CHARGE association CA consists of a non random association of ocular coloboma C heart anomaly H atresia of choanae A retarded growth and or development R genital hypoplasia G and ear anomalies and or hearing impairment E	.
None	7	2	She developed progressive sensorineural hearing loss myopathy ptosis short stature and mild developmental delays after normal early development	.
None	7	11	She developed progressive sensorineural hearing loss myopathy ptosis short stature and mild developmental delays after normal early development	.
None	23	27	Danon disease an X linked dominant disorder results from mutations in the lysosome associated membrane protein 2 LAMP2 gene and presents with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy skeletal myopathy and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	0	27	Charcot Marie Tooth disease type 4D CMT4D also known as Hereditary Motor Sensory Neuropathy Lom Type HMSNL is an autosomal recessive early onset severe demyelinating neuropathy with hearing loss caused by NDRG1 mutations	.
rd-disab	6	3	One patient had hearing loss suggesting Usher syndrome	.
rd-disab	0	48	Hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy associated with agenesis of the corpus callosum OMIM 218000 is an autosomal recessive disease of early onset characterized by a delay in developmental milestones a severe sensory motor polyneuropathy with areflexia a variable degree of agenesis of the corpus callosum amyotrophy hypotonia and cognitive impairment	.
rd-disab	0	0	Autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias ADCAs encompass a heterogeneous group of rare diseases that affect the cerebellum and its connections	.
rd-disab	23	35	Mutations in the gene coding for membrane bound fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase FALDH lead to toxic accumulation of lipid species and development of the Sjögren Larsson Syndrome SLS a rare disorder characterized by skin defects and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	2	17	Individuals with propionic acidemia often have life threatening episodes of hyperammonemia and metabolic acidosis as well as intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	1	8	BACKGROUND Costello syndrome is a rare syndrome of multiple congenital anomalies	.
rd-disab	0	13	Kabuki syndrome KS is a rare genetic condition characterized by a distinctive facies intellectual disability growth delay and a variety of skeletal visceral and other anomalies including anorectal malformations ARMs	.
rd-disab	0	15	Kabuki syndrome KS is a rare genetic condition characterized by a distinctive facies intellectual disability growth delay and a variety of skeletal visceral and other anomalies including anorectal malformations ARMs	.
rd-disab	0	13	Williams syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder associated with cardiovascular problems facial abnormalities and several behavioural and neurological disabilities	.
rd-disab	0	4	Williams syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder associated with cardiovascular problems facial abnormalities and several behavioural and neurological disabilities	.
rd-disab	0	0	Familial Danish dementia FDD is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease caused by a 10 nucleotide duplication insertion in the BRI 2 gene	.
rd-disab	4	22	This suggests that while SCA17 typically slowly progresses over years its repertoire of presentations should be expanded to include rapidly progressive isolated ataxia resembling paraneoplastic disorders or prion disease	.
rd-disab	6	3	Both disorders cause developmental delay and ISSD is generally fatal in early childhood	.
rd-disab	8	15	We identified several rarely reported phenotypes in infantile FSHD including cardiac arrhythmia respiratory insufficiency and swallowing difficulties	.
rd-disab	3	14	We suggest that maternal PKU should be suspected where there is sibling recurrence of cognitive impairment particularly where the mother was born before the initiation of the neonatal screening programme for PKU	.
rd-disab	4	14	We suggest that maternal PKU should be suspected where there is sibling recurrence of cognitive impairment particularly where the mother was born before the initiation of the neonatal screening programme for PKU	.
rd-disab	15	11	Universal screening introduced in the 1960s has reduced the incidence of learning disability resulting from phenylketonuria PKU which is a treatable condition	.
rd-disab	0	0	Alpha thalassemia X linked intellectual disability ATRX syndrome is a genetic syndrome caused by mutation of the ATRX gene associated with chromatin remodeling	.
rd-disab	0	9	Alpers disease is a mitochondrial depletion syndrome characterized by psychomotor retardation intractable epilepsy and liver failure	.
rd-disab	0	13	Cri du chat syndrome is characterized by cat like cry facial dysmorphisms microcephaly speech delay intellectual disability and slow growth rate which are present with variable frequency	.
rd-disab	0	15	Cri du chat syndrome is characterized by cat like cry facial dysmorphisms microcephaly speech delay intellectual disability and slow growth rate which are present with variable frequency	.
rd-disab	0	15	Pallister Killian syndrome PKS is a potentially lethal disorder with facial dysmorphism pigmentary skin anomalies developmental delay and major visceral anomalies such as diaphragmatic hernia anorectal malformation and congenital heart disease	.
rd-disab	12	9	This could be helpful in elucidating the pathogenesis of hearing impairment in MWS	.
rd-disab	0	14	Refsum s disease is a disorder of lipid metabolism with pigmentary retinopathy demyelinating neuropathy ataxia and hearing loss	.
rd-disab	0	16	Refsum s disease is a disorder of lipid metabolism with pigmentary retinopathy demyelinating neuropathy ataxia and hearing loss	.
rd-disab	16	31	Although the patient groups showed distinct atrophy patterns with significantly more severe frontal GM loss in bvFTD we found similar neural correlates of limb apraxia within posterior brain regions for both dementia subtypes limb imitation was associated with bilateral atrophy of superior inferior and medial parietal cortex	.
rd-disab	0	17	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is a rare but well documented X linked disorder characterized by small size developmental delay mental retardation and characteristic facial and skeletal findings in affected males	.
rd-disab	0	19	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is a rare but well documented X linked disorder characterized by small size developmental delay mental retardation and characteristic facial and skeletal findings in affected males	.
rd-disab	5	5	RESULTS Thirty four percent of frontotemporal dementia patients showed psychotic features	.
rd-disab	11	0	Postlingual progressive hearing loss is found as an isolated feature in DFN2 patients	.
rd-disab	11	0	Postlingual progressive hearing loss is found as an isolated feature in DFN2 patients	.
rd-disab	0	18	MAS can involve the orbit region and cause stenosis in the optic canal leading the patient to a progressive visual loss	.
rd-disab	1	20	OBJECTIVE Maternal phenylketonuria MPKU is characterized by intrauterine growth retardation microcephaly congenital malformations mainly cardiac defects dysmorphic facial features and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	8	13	We report a ten month old boy with Canavan disease who presented with global developmental delay seizures abnormal eye movements and microcephaly	.
rd-disab	2	25	Patients with 22q11 2 deletion exhibited facial dysmorphic features 82 congenital heart defects 70 immunological problems 47 multiple congenital anomalies 64 hypocalcemia 47 mental retardation learning difficulties 35 cleft palate velopharyngeal insufficiency 23 5 seizures hypotonia 23 and growth retardation 12	.
rd-disab	2	38	Patients with 22q11 2 deletion exhibited facial dysmorphic features 82 congenital heart defects 70 immunological problems 47 multiple congenital anomalies 64 hypocalcemia 47 mental retardation learning difficulties 35 cleft palate velopharyngeal insufficiency 23 5 seizures hypotonia 23 and growth retardation 12	.
rd-disab	2	23	Patients with 22q11 2 deletion exhibited facial dysmorphic features 82 congenital heart defects 70 immunological problems 47 multiple congenital anomalies 64 hypocalcemia 47 mental retardation learning difficulties 35 cleft palate velopharyngeal insufficiency 23 5 seizures hypotonia 23 and growth retardation 12	.
rd-disab	3	16	Clinical manifestations of CRS included low birth weight <2500g 86 0 congenital heart disease 63 7 hearing impairment 63 7 and ophthalmological abnormalities 46 9	.
rd-disab	3	21	Clinical manifestations of CRS included low birth weight <2500g 86 0 congenital heart disease 63 7 hearing impairment 63 7 and ophthalmological abnormalities 46 9	.
rd-disab	13	41	In the context of the analyses of this patient and other cases of PTLS we argue that the central feature of the syndrome appears to be related to diminished speech and language capacity rather than the specific social deficits central to autism	.
rd-disab	13	36	In the context of the analyses of this patient and other cases of PTLS we argue that the central feature of the syndrome appears to be related to diminished speech and language capacity rather than the specific social deficits central to autism	.
rd-disab	13	28	In the context of the analyses of this patient and other cases of PTLS we argue that the central feature of the syndrome appears to be related to diminished speech and language capacity rather than the specific social deficits central to autism	.
rd-disab	21	3	Mental retardation and behavioral abnormalities are prevalent in both infantile and late onset forms although the phenotype in late onset atypical NKH is more heterogeneous	.
rd-disab	21	0	Mental retardation and behavioral abnormalities are prevalent in both infantile and late onset forms although the phenotype in late onset atypical NKH is more heterogeneous	.
rd-disab	0	14	Costello syndrome is a disorder that primarily involves ectodermal tissues and is characterized by mental and growth retardation distinctive coarse facies redundant skin neck palms and soles and papillomata perioral nasal and anal	.
rd-disab	21	21	Through exome sequencing and candidate gene screening we report two families with autosomal recessive transmission of ALDH18A1 mutations and predominant complex hereditary spastic paraplegia with marked cognitive impairment without any cutaneous abnormality	.
rd-disab	21	26	Through exome sequencing and candidate gene screening we report two families with autosomal recessive transmission of ALDH18A1 mutations and predominant complex hereditary spastic paraplegia with marked cognitive impairment without any cutaneous abnormality	.
rd-disab	21	19	Through exome sequencing and candidate gene screening we report two families with autosomal recessive transmission of ALDH18A1 mutations and predominant complex hereditary spastic paraplegia with marked cognitive impairment without any cutaneous abnormality	.
rd-disab	0	17	l 2 Hydroxyglutaric aciduria l 2 HGA is an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder characterized by psychomotor delay ataxia macrocephaly and typical neuroradiological findings of subcortical leucoencephalopathy	.
rd-disab	0	15	l 2 Hydroxyglutaric aciduria l 2 HGA is an autosomal recessive neurometabolic disorder characterized by psychomotor delay ataxia macrocephaly and typical neuroradiological findings of subcortical leucoencephalopathy	.
rd-disab	0	14	Coffin Lowry syndrome is a well defined clinical entity classically associated with moderate to severe mental retardation characteristic facial features skeletal deformities and tapering fingers	.
rd-disab	2	6	Toddlers with triple X syndrome show delayed language development	.
rd-disab	0	16	Alpha mannosidosis is an inherited lysosomal storage disorder characterized by immune deficiency facial and skeletal abnormalities hearing impairment and intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	0	19	Alpha mannosidosis is an inherited lysosomal storage disorder characterized by immune deficiency facial and skeletal abnormalities hearing impairment and intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	0	11	FTD is heterogeneous with regard to clinical manifestation genetics distribution of cortical atrophy and underlying disease	.
rd-disab	20	4	The present study confirmed mental disability particularly within the moderate category as a consistent feature of children and adults with SMS	.
rd-disab	16	18	In rare recessively inherited CARASIL the clinical picture and white matter changes are similar as in CADASIL but cognitive decline begins earlier	.
rd-disab	21	15	In this review we discuss Nf1 fly and mouse systems that mimic many of the cognitive abnormalities seen in children with NF1	.
rd-disab	1	20	The Roussy Lévy syndrome MIM #180800 was described in 1926 as a disorder presenting with pes cavus and tendon areflexia distal limb weakness tremor in the upper limbs gait ataxia and distal sensory loss	.
rd-disab	1	28	The Roussy Lévy syndrome MIM #180800 was described in 1926 as a disorder presenting with pes cavus and tendon areflexia distal limb weakness tremor in the upper limbs gait ataxia and distal sensory loss	.
rd-disab	24	24	Previous research has suggested that the pattern and severity of cognitive deficits in people with severe chronic schizophrenia is similar to that observed in behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia bvFTD	.
rd-disab	11	11	It is important for healthcare providers who care for patients with frontotemporal dementia to recognize the unique needs of family caregivers	.
rd-disab	11	11	At present baseline values of cardiac troponin I are unknown among Friedreich ataxia subjects	.
rd-disab	1	7	OBJECTIVES Kallmann syndrome KS usually combines an anosmia and a hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism	.
rd-disab	0	15	CHARGE syndrome is a rare polymalformative disease representing one of the major causes of associated blindness and deafness	.
rd-disab	0	17	CHARGE syndrome is a rare polymalformative disease representing one of the major causes of associated blindness and deafness	.
rd-disab	0	8	Fragile X syndrome the most common form of inherited intellectual disability is caused by expansion of CGG trinucleotide repeat at the 5 untranslated region of the FMR1 gene at Xq27	.
rd-disab	6	0	Hearing impairment was detected in 34 NS patients	.
rd-disab	18	0	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia and cardiomyopathy	.
rd-disab	0	0	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia and cardiomyopathy	.
rd-disab	0	15	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia and cardiomyopathy	.
rd-disab	0	1	Friedreich ataxia is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by ataxia of all four limbs dysarthria areflexia and cardiomyopathy	.
rd-disab	9	37	Cognitive testing revealed that 184 patients 51 5 had ALS with normal cognition 51 14 3 had ALS with FTD 103 28 9 had ALS with executive or nonexecutive impairment and 19 5 3 had ALS with behavioral impairment	.
rd-disab	2	6	In contrast LGS was associated with mental retardation which persisted after seizure control	.
rd-disab	5	18	Of the nine children with DS and epilepsy two 22 presented mild mental retardation and seven 78 had moderate to severe cognitive delay	.
rd-disab	5	11	Of the nine children with DS and epilepsy two 22 presented mild mental retardation and seven 78 had moderate to severe cognitive delay	.
rd-disab	8	8	Twenty two patients with the classic phenotype of ataxia telangiectasia were grouped into early stage cerebellar disease group AT I versus late stage cerebrocerebellar disease group AT II and examined for neurocognitive features	.
rd-disab	0	18	Danon disease primary lysosome associated membrane protein 2 LAMP 2 deficiency is characterized clinically by cardiomyopathy myopathy and intellectual disability in boys	.
rd-disab	15	0	Hearing impairment has long been associated with the rarer forms of severe childhood and infantile facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy	.
rd-disab	0	0	Hereditary spastic paraplegia HSP type 2 is a proteolipid protein PLP1 related genetic disorder that is characterized by dysmyelination of the central nervous system resulting primarily in limb spasticity cognitive impairment nystagmus and spastic urinary bladder of varying severity	.
rd-disab	0	21	Joubert syndrome JS is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous ciliopathy characterized by episodic hyperpnea and apnea hypotonia ataxia cognitive impairment and ocular motor apraxia	.
rd-disab	0	17	Joubert syndrome JS is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous ciliopathy characterized by episodic hyperpnea and apnea hypotonia ataxia cognitive impairment and ocular motor apraxia	.
rd-disab	0	18	Joubert syndrome JS is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous ciliopathy characterized by episodic hyperpnea and apnea hypotonia ataxia cognitive impairment and ocular motor apraxia	.
rd-disab	0	26	L 2 hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a neurodegenerative disorder with insidious onset after infancy which is likely inherited in an autosomal recessive mode characterized by mental retardation progressive ataxia epilepsy macrocephaly pyramidalism and extrapyramidal symptoms in variable combinations with subcortical encephalopathy and cerebral atrophy in neuroimaging studies	.
rd-disab	0	24	L 2 hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a neurodegenerative disorder with insidious onset after infancy which is likely inherited in an autosomal recessive mode characterized by mental retardation progressive ataxia epilepsy macrocephaly pyramidalism and extrapyramidal symptoms in variable combinations with subcortical encephalopathy and cerebral atrophy in neuroimaging studies	.
rd-disab	0	0	Hereditary spastic paraplegias are heterogeneous neurological disorders characterized by a pyramidal syndrome with symptoms predominantly affecting the lower limbs	.
rd-disab	3	26	METHODS Publications reporting CRS prevalence in general population as well as selected subgroups i e suspected intra uterine infection congenital ocular abnormalities deafness congenital heart disease mental retardation and congenital malformations seroprevalence to rubella IgG amongst women and adolescents and immunogenicity and coverage of RCVs in Indian population were retrieved through a systematic search	.
rd-disab	3	19	METHODS Publications reporting CRS prevalence in general population as well as selected subgroups i e suspected intra uterine infection congenital ocular abnormalities deafness congenital heart disease mental retardation and congenital malformations seroprevalence to rubella IgG amongst women and adolescents and immunogenicity and coverage of RCVs in Indian population were retrieved through a systematic search	.
rd-disab	3	22	METHODS Publications reporting CRS prevalence in general population as well as selected subgroups i e suspected intra uterine infection congenital ocular abnormalities deafness congenital heart disease mental retardation and congenital malformations seroprevalence to rubella IgG amongst women and adolescents and immunogenicity and coverage of RCVs in Indian population were retrieved through a systematic search	.
rd-disab	9	26	We report a family that suffers an autosomal dominant Alport syndrome caused by a previously undescribed mutation in the COL4A3 gene in which several members have hearing impairment as the only clinical manifestation suggesting that in this family deafness can occur independent of renal disease	.
rd-disab	24	17	To date the development of a quantitative motor scale for FMCD has been difficult due to the moderate to severe intellectual impairment that accompanies FCMD	.
rd-disab	44	15	The second case was a 6 year old boy of Asian ancestry who presented with ataxia exacerbated by intercurrent illnesses decreased exercise tolerance gross motor and fine motor delays anorexia and recurrent episodes of vomiting associated with dehydration and he was subsequently diagnosed with KSS	.
rd-disab	0	34	Huntington s disease HD is caused by an expansion of the trinucleotide poly CAG tract located in exon 1 of the huntingtin Htt gene leading to progressive neurodegeneration in selected brain regions and associated functional impairments in motor cognitive and psychiatric domains	.
rd-disab	0	11	Fragile X syndrome FXS is one of the major causes for autism and mental retardation in humans	.
rd-disab	0	13	Fragile X syndrome FXS is one of the major causes for autism and mental retardation in humans	.
rd-disab	12	34	We report on a 4 1 2 year old girl with apparent CHARGE association who had a de novo inverted duplication 14 q22 >24 3 iris colobomas ventricular septal defect soft tissue choanal atresia intellectual impairment growth retardation sensorineural deafness apparently low set ears and upslanting palpebral fissures	.
rd-disab	12	36	We report on a 4 1 2 year old girl with apparent CHARGE association who had a de novo inverted duplication 14 q22 >24 3 iris colobomas ventricular septal defect soft tissue choanal atresia intellectual impairment growth retardation sensorineural deafness apparently low set ears and upslanting palpebral fissures	.
rd-disab	12	38	We report on a 4 1 2 year old girl with apparent CHARGE association who had a de novo inverted duplication 14 q22 >24 3 iris colobomas ventricular septal defect soft tissue choanal atresia intellectual impairment growth retardation sensorineural deafness apparently low set ears and upslanting palpebral fissures	.
rd-disab	6	12	We conclude that all patients with Behçet disease should be screened for hearing impairment and subsequently treated if an impairment is discovered	.
rd-disab	0	0	Frontotemporal dementia FTD is a not uncommon explanation for progressive cognitive deficit in patients who often have a genetic susceptibility for such a neurodegenerative process	.
rd-disab	0	9	Frontotemporal dementia FTD is a not uncommon explanation for progressive cognitive deficit in patients who often have a genetic susceptibility for such a neurodegenerative process	.
rd-disab	9	24	We aim to analyze neurocognitive functioning of school aged cystinosis patients treated with cysteamine in order to identify specific deficits that can lead to learning difficulties	.
rd-disab	8	12	We report on a case of late infantile MLD presenting with cerebellar ataxia as the only first clinical sign preceding even changes in white matter visible in MR imaging	.
rd-disab	1	15	BACKGROUND Huntington s disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease with autosomal dominant inheritance characterized by motor disturbances cognitive decline and behavioral and psychological symptoms	.
rd-disab	1	17	BACKGROUND Huntington s disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease with autosomal dominant inheritance characterized by motor disturbances cognitive decline and behavioral and psychological symptoms	.
rd-disab	4	12	BACKGROUND The spectrum of CHARGE association includes coloboma heart disease choanal atresia retarded growth and development and or CNS anomalies genital anomalies and or hypogonadism and ear anomalies and or deafness	.
rd-disab	4	30	BACKGROUND The spectrum of CHARGE association includes coloboma heart disease choanal atresia retarded growth and development and or CNS anomalies genital anomalies and or hypogonadism and ear anomalies and or deafness	.
rd-disab	0	14	MELAS syndrome is a multi organ disease with broad manifestations including stroke like episodes dementia epilepsy lactic acidemia myopathy recurrent headaches hearing impairment diabetes and short stature	.
rd-disab	0	21	MELAS syndrome is a multi organ disease with broad manifestations including stroke like episodes dementia epilepsy lactic acidemia myopathy recurrent headaches hearing impairment diabetes and short stature	.
rd-disab	0	10	Aspartylglucosaminuria is a rare autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder leading early to a progressive intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	17	17	The most common central nervous system manifestations were transient and included dysarthria ataxia hemiparesis and tetraparesis resembling periodic paralysis	.
rd-disab	17	7	CONCLUSION We report a rare case of psychomotor retardation occurring at an early age in genetically confirmed GS	.
rd-disab	31	15	We describe a 3 year old boy with complete agenesis of corpus callosum developmental delay mental retardation anterior diaphragmatic hernia Morgagni type severe hypermetropia and facial dysmorphism suggesting the diagnosis of Donnai Barrow syndrome	.
rd-disab	31	13	We describe a 3 year old boy with complete agenesis of corpus callosum developmental delay mental retardation anterior diaphragmatic hernia Morgagni type severe hypermetropia and facial dysmorphism suggesting the diagnosis of Donnai Barrow syndrome	.
rd-disab	22	3	This review addresses hearing loss as it occurs and has been reported in Muenke syndrome as well as six additional FGFR related craniosynostosis syndromes Apert syndrome Pfeiffer syndrome Crouzon syndrome Beare Stevenson syndrome Crouzon syndrome with acanthosis nigricans and Jackson Weiss syndrome	.
rd-disab	28	3	This review addresses hearing loss as it occurs and has been reported in Muenke syndrome as well as six additional FGFR related craniosynostosis syndromes Apert syndrome Pfeiffer syndrome Crouzon syndrome Beare Stevenson syndrome Crouzon syndrome with acanthosis nigricans and Jackson Weiss syndrome	.
rd-disab	10	0	Progressive sensorineural deafness is an early feature of XP and CS	.
rd-disab	8	0	Progressive sensorineural deafness is an early feature of XP and CS	.
rd-disab	25	25	Mutations described thus far in PRPS1 are all missense mutations that result in PRS I superactivity or in variable levels of decreased activity resulting in X linked Charcot Marie Tooth disease 5 CMTX5 Arts syndrome and X linked nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness DFN2	.
rd-disab	0	0	Frontotemporal dementia FTD is the most frequently occurring dementia in the presenile population	.
rd-disab	0	1	Frontotemporal dementia FTD is the most frequently occurring dementia in the presenile population	.
rd-disab	20	20	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 SCA7 in which the degenerative process also affect the retina belongs to the category of the autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type II ADCA II	.
rd-disab	0	0	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 SCA7 in which the degenerative process also affect the retina belongs to the category of the autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type II ADCA II	.
rd-disab	0	20	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 SCA7 in which the degenerative process also affect the retina belongs to the category of the autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia type II ADCA II	.
rd-disab	3	14	RESULTS Individuals with Darier disease had a sixfold increased risk of being diagnosed with intellectual disability risk ratio 6 2 95 confidence interval 3 1 12 4	.
rd-disab	0	23	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is a rare neurodevelopmental condition caused by heterogeneous mutations in the RPS6KA3 gene on the X chromosome leading to severe intellectual disability and dysmorphism in men while women are carriers and only weakly affected	.
rd-disab	0	27	Periventricular nodular heterotopia PNH is a genetically heterogeneous neuronal migration disorder characterized by subependymal heterotopic nodules and is variably associated with other brain malformations epileptic seizures and intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	0	35	Alport syndrome AS is caused by pathogenic mutations in the genes encoding α3 α4 or α5 chains of collagen IV COL4A3 COL4A4 COL4A5 resulting in hematuria chronic renal failure CRF sensorineural hearing loss SNHL and ocular abnormalities	.
rd-disab	0	30	Alport syndrome AS is caused by pathogenic mutations in the genes encoding α3 α4 or α5 chains of collagen IV COL4A3 COL4A4 COL4A5 resulting in hematuria chronic renal failure CRF sensorineural hearing loss SNHL and ocular abnormalities	.
rd-disab	7	7	Forty percent of the patients had autism atypical autism and 82 had developmental delay	.
rd-disab	0	0	Friedreich ataxia is the most common hereditary ataxia with a reported prevalence of 1 20 000 1 50 000 in Central Europe	.
rd-disab	0	6	Friedreich ataxia is the most common hereditary ataxia with a reported prevalence of 1 20 000 1 50 000 in Central Europe	.
rd-disab	0	16	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is an X linked semi dominant disorder characterized by diverse phenotypes including intellectual disability facial and digital anomalies	.
rd-disab	2	10	Patients with PRS I superactivity demonstrate uric acid overproduction hypotonia ataxia neurodevelopment abnormalities and postlingual hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	2	14	Patients with PRS I superactivity demonstrate uric acid overproduction hypotonia ataxia neurodevelopment abnormalities and postlingual hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	18	18	We review articles examining metacognitive comparisons between two of the most common dementia subtypes Alzheimer s disease and frontotemporal dementia	.
rd-disab	18	12	We review articles examining metacognitive comparisons between two of the most common dementia subtypes Alzheimer s disease and frontotemporal dementia	.
rd-disab	1	12	BRESEK BRESHECK syndrome is a multiple congenital malformation characterized by brain anomalies intellectual disability ectodermal dysplasia skeletal deformities ear or eye anomalies and renal anomalies or small kidneys with or without Hirschsprung disease and cleft palate or cryptorchidism	.
rd-disab	0	7	Leber described a particular type of hereditary optic atrophy in 1871	.
rd-disab	0	10	Fragile X syndrome FXS is the most common form of inherited intellectual disability ID and affects 0 7 3 0 of intellectually compromised population of unknown etiology worldwide	.
rd-disab	2	11	In addition Diamond Blackfan anaemia patients also exhibit a number of behavioural abnormalities	.
rd-disab	0	25	Huntington disease HD is caused by an expanded HTT CAG repeat that leads in a length dependent completely dominant manner to onset of a characteristic movement disorder	.
rd-disab	1	26	The maternal PKU MPKU syndrome is caused by high blood Phe concentrations during pregnancy and presents with serious foetal anomalies especially microcephaly congenital heart disease and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	0	10	Alström syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by retinal degeneration sensorineural hearing loss early onset obesity and non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus	.
rd-disab	0	12	Alström syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by retinal degeneration sensorineural hearing loss early onset obesity and non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus	.
rd-disab	6	9	we submitted 5 children affected by CHARGE syndrome with profound bilateral sensorineural hearing loss to CI	.
rd-disab	8	26	This case illustrates the importance of confirming the SMS diagnosis which is associated with cognitive and functional impairment as well as significant psychiatric co morbidities and behavioral problems	.
rd-disab	8	14	This case illustrates the importance of confirming the SMS diagnosis which is associated with cognitive and functional impairment as well as significant psychiatric co morbidities and behavioral problems	.
rd-disab	9	14	Recently the EFTUD2 gene was identified in patients with mandibulofacial dysostosis associated with microcephaly intellectual disability and esophageal atresia	.
rd-disab	13	8	Our results argue for shared neural correlates of limb apraxia in AD and bvFTD and validate the syndrome as an important neuropsychological feature across different etiologies	.
rd-disab	2	7	Importantly both bvFTD and SD also demonstrated impaired face recognition	.
rd-disab	8	32	Thus Rsk2 loss of function as seen in CLS perturbs the differentiation of neural precursors into neurons and maintains them instead as proliferating radial precursor cells a defect that may underlie the cognitive dysfunction seen in CLS	.
rd-disab	9	9	Such studies may contribute to the further understanding of ataxia telangiectasia and to the role of the cerebrocerebellar system in the development of cognitive function in childhood	.
rd-disab	25	16	The first case was a boy of Blackfoot Aboriginal ancestry who presented with failure to thrive developmental delay and Fanconi syndrome and was diagnosed with KSS at 3years of age	.
rd-disab	11	18	All three children were adversely affected by the fetopathy of the maternal phenylketonuria syndrome each with evidence of growth failure and impaired neurodevelopment	.
rd-disab	1	1	The hereditary spastic paraplegias HSP are a heterogeneous group of genetic neurodegenerative disorders in which the main feature is progressive spasticity of the lower limbs due to pyramidal tract dysfunction	.
rd-disab	9	27	In this article we report a new patient with HHH syndrome a 52 year old woman who had the typical clinical features except for an absence of mental retardation	.
rd-disab	7	15	Missense mutations in this gene result in HSD10 deficiency whereas a silent mutation results in mental retardation X linked syndromic 10 MRXS10	.
rd-disab	0	7	Mowat Wilson syndrome MWS is characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability and distinctive facial features in association with variable structural congenital anomalies clinical features including congenital heart disease Hirschsprung disease hypospadias agenesis of the corpus callosum short stature epilepsy and microcephaly	.
rd-disab	2	18	Considering that CADASIL is a progressive disease with deteriorating patients QOL physicians have to pay more attention to emotional problems in CADASIL patients	.
rd-disab	0	8	Pendred syndrome the most frequent syndromic form of hereditary hearing loss is associated with mutations in the anion exchanger pendrin	.
rd-disab	5	10	Mutations in human RAB3GAP1 cause Warburg micro syndrome WARBM a severe developmental disorder characterized by abnormalities of the eye genitals and nervous system including a predominantly axonal peripheral neuropathy	.
rd-disab	4	8	Mild PRS I deficiency DFNX 2 results in non syndromic progressive hearing loss whereas moderate PRS I deficiency CMTX5 and severe PRS I deficiency Arts syndrome present with peripheral or optic neuropathy prelingual progressive sensorineural hearing loss and central nervous system impairment	.
rd-disab	9	20	The same condition is present in people suffering from Down syndrome DS even if their clumsy movements are due to cerebral and cognitive impairments	.
rd-disab	7	24	We report on a family affected by FSHD carrying a small 4q35 deletion and residual fragments length of 17kb presenting with epilepsy three patients speech delay two and mental retardation one	.
rd-disab	7	28	We report on a family affected by FSHD carrying a small 4q35 deletion and residual fragments length of 17kb presenting with epilepsy three patients speech delay two and mental retardation one	.
rd-disab	12	4	From a clinical perspective impaired ability to recognise faces is common in bvFTD and SD and therefore strategies to improve face perception and memory may be beneficial for these patients	.
rd-disab	0	19	Familial Danish dementia FDD is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease clinically characterized by the presence of cataracts hearing impairment cerebellar ataxia and dementia	.
rd-disab	0	0	Familial Danish dementia FDD is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease clinically characterized by the presence of cataracts hearing impairment cerebellar ataxia and dementia	.
rd-disab	0	2	Familial Danish dementia FDD is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease clinically characterized by the presence of cataracts hearing impairment cerebellar ataxia and dementia	.
rd-disab	0	17	Familial Danish dementia FDD is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease clinically characterized by the presence of cataracts hearing impairment cerebellar ataxia and dementia	.
rd-disab	4	16	Steroid responsive cases of CMT have been reported but this is the first case report of steroid responsive sensorineural hearing loss in CMT	.
rd-disab	27	32	The aim of this study was to delineate the PIGV mutation spectrum as well as the associated phenotypic spectrum in a cohort of 16 individuals diagnosed with HPMRS on the basis of intellectual disability and elevated serum alkaline phosphate as minimal diagnostic criteria	.
rd-disab	11	11	He presents mental retardation axial hypotonia hypertonia of arms and legs paroxysmal dyskinesias seizures	.
rd-disab	0	18	Danon disease DD is a monogenic X linked disorder characterized by cardiomyopathy skeletal myopathy and variable degrees of intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	23	18	In clinical and radiologic aspect a patient with multiple exostoses accompanying with syndromic features including craniofacial abnormalities and mental retardation the diagnosis of PSS should be considered	.
rd-disab	0	27	Danon disease an X linked dominant disorder results from mutations in the lysosome associated membrane protein 2 LAMP2 gene and presents with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy skeletal myopathy and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	1	17	OBJECTIVE Muckle Wells syndrome MWS is an inherited autoinflammatory disease characterized by fevers rashes arthralgia conjunctivitis and sensorineural hearing loss	.
rd-disab	0	21	Wolfram syndrome WS is a severe autosomal recessive pleiotropic disease primarily characterized by the association of juvenile onset diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	9	14	The first reported patient had been diagnosed as having Ramsay Hunt syndrome associated with Friedreich s ataxia	.
rd-disab	10	13	It is well known that HMSN VI is an axonal CMT neuropathy with optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	6	12	Many dermatologists observe in patients with DD neuropsychiatric disorders psychosis depression and rare mental retardation	.
rd-disab	0	18	Fragile X syndrome is the most common monogenetic form of intellectual disability and is a leading cause of autism	.
rd-disab	0	10	Fragile X syndrome is the most common monogenetic form of intellectual disability and is a leading cause of autism	.
rd-disab	8	0	Motor dysfunction is a common complication of classical galactosemia with tremor and dystonia the most frequent findings	.
rd-disab	4	18	The main features of FCMD are a combination of infantile onset hypotonia generalized muscle weakness eye abnormalities and mental retardation associated with cortical migration defects and most patients are never able to walk	.
rd-disab	39	39	The network of brain regions identified in this study is strikingly similar to that identified in other psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia which suggests that treatment strategies in psychiatry may be beneficial for the management of psychotic symptoms in frontotemporal dementia	.
rd-disab	0	1	Episodic ataxia EA is characterized by paroxysmal attacks of ataxia interspersed by asymptomatic periods	.
rd-disab	0	0	Episodic ataxia EA is characterized by paroxysmal attacks of ataxia interspersed by asymptomatic periods	.
rd-disab	20	4	If a child has progressive sensorineural deafness and a widened vestibular aqueduct it is important to consider a diagnosis of Pendred syndrome	.
rd-disab	23	23	The latter are associated with a potential trait biomarker we therefore suggest including amino acid chromatography in the clinico genetic work up of hereditary spastic paraplegia particularly in dominant cases as the associated phenotype is not distinct from other causative genes	.
rd-disab	1	12	Three 8q12 duplications have been reported with shared recognizable phenotype Duane anomaly developmental delay and dysmorphic facial features	.
rd-disab	25	16	In addition this is the first documented case in a girl that was clearly associated with intellectual disability which is very rare in females with Danon disease	.
rd-disab	0	12	WWS presents at birth with generalized hypotonia muscle weakness developmental delay with mental retardation and occasional seizures	.
rd-disab	0	9	WWS presents at birth with generalized hypotonia muscle weakness developmental delay with mental retardation and occasional seizures	.
rd-disab	0	19	Severe deficiency of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase MTHFR with homocystinuria can result in early demise or later onset neurological impairment including developmental delay motor dysfunction and seizures	.
rd-disab	0	21	Severe deficiency of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase MTHFR with homocystinuria can result in early demise or later onset neurological impairment including developmental delay motor dysfunction and seizures	.
rd-disab	14	10	CASE REPORTS A 44 Year old man who complained of visual loss presented bilateral congenital aniridia with corneal dystrophy and dense cataract	.
rd-disab	4	32	Thus the diagnosis of SMS can be made from a simple blood sample and should be questioned in subjects of any age presenting with an association of facial dysmorphism speech delay with behavioral and sleep wake circadian rhythm disorders and other anomalies including short stature and mild dysmorphic features	.
rd-disab	4	29	Thus the diagnosis of SMS can be made from a simple blood sample and should be questioned in subjects of any age presenting with an association of facial dysmorphism speech delay with behavioral and sleep wake circadian rhythm disorders and other anomalies including short stature and mild dysmorphic features	.
rd-disab	17	17	The most common diagnoses known in 129 were Angelman syndrome n=16 ataxia telangiectasia n=13 mitochondrial disease n=9 Friedreich ataxia n=7 stroke n=7 and familial genetic episodic ataxia n=7	.
rd-disab	38	33	We discuss the involvement of the other deleted genes such as CAMK2A or SLC6A7 in the cognitive development delay of the patients reported and we propose the systematic investigation for 5q32 deletion when intellectual disability is associated with Treacher Collins syndrome	.
rd-disab	3	14	Clinical manifestations of PMD are variable and major features include progressive nystagmus spasticity tremor ataxia and psychomotor delay	.
rd-disab	3	16	Clinical manifestations of PMD are variable and major features include progressive nystagmus spasticity tremor ataxia and psychomotor delay	.
rd-disab	0	16	MPS IIIA is an inherited neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorder characterized by cognitive impairment sleepwake cycle disturbance speech difficulties eventual mental regression and early death	.
rd-disab	0	18	MPS IIIA is an inherited neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorder characterized by cognitive impairment sleepwake cycle disturbance speech difficulties eventual mental regression and early death	.
rd-disab	0	11	MPS IIIA is an inherited neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorder characterized by cognitive impairment sleepwake cycle disturbance speech difficulties eventual mental regression and early death	.
rd-disab	15	17	Importantly our data imply that the same SOX10 mutations can underlie both typical WS and KS with deafness without skin hair hypopigmentation Hirschsprung disease or neurological defects	.
rd-disab	2	9	The terminal 22q13 3 deletion syndrome is characterized by severe expressive language delay mild mental retardation hypotonia joint laxity dolichocephaly and minor facial dysmorphisms	.
rd-disab	2	13	The terminal 22q13 3 deletion syndrome is characterized by severe expressive language delay mild mental retardation hypotonia joint laxity dolichocephaly and minor facial dysmorphisms	.
rd-disab	0	0	Ataxia telangiectasia AT is an autosomal recessive multisystem genetic disorder caused by a mutation in the ATM gene encoding for the ATM protein	.
rd-disab	0	14	Leigh syndrome LS is a progressive mitochondrial neurodegenerative disorder whose symptoms most commonly include psychomotor delay with regression lactic acidosis and a failure to thrive	.
rd-disab	2	21	Individuals with Mowat Wilson syndrome MWS OMIM#235730 have characteristic facial features a variety of congenital anomalies such as Hirschsprung disease and intellectual disabilities caused by mutation or deletion of ZEB2 gene	.
rd-disab	0	25	Derivative 22 der 22 syndrome is a rare disorder associated with multiple congenital anomalies including pre auricular skin tags or pits conotruncal heart defects and profound mental retardation	.
rd-disab	0	29	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS the result of an interstitial deletion within chromosome 17p11 2 is a disorder that may include minor dysmorphic features brachydactyly short stature hypotonia speech delays cognitive deficits signs of peripheral neuropathy scoliosis and neurobehavioral problems including sleep disturbances and maladaptive repetitive and self injurious behaviors	.
rd-disab	0	43	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS the result of an interstitial deletion within chromosome 17p11 2 is a disorder that may include minor dysmorphic features brachydactyly short stature hypotonia speech delays cognitive deficits signs of peripheral neuropathy scoliosis and neurobehavioral problems including sleep disturbances and maladaptive repetitive and self injurious behaviors	.
rd-disab	0	40	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS the result of an interstitial deletion within chromosome 17p11 2 is a disorder that may include minor dysmorphic features brachydactyly short stature hypotonia speech delays cognitive deficits signs of peripheral neuropathy scoliosis and neurobehavioral problems including sleep disturbances and maladaptive repetitive and self injurious behaviors	.
rd-disab	0	27	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS the result of an interstitial deletion within chromosome 17p11 2 is a disorder that may include minor dysmorphic features brachydactyly short stature hypotonia speech delays cognitive deficits signs of peripheral neuropathy scoliosis and neurobehavioral problems including sleep disturbances and maladaptive repetitive and self injurious behaviors	.
rd-disab	0	9	SMS provides a demonstration of a biological basis for sleep disorder in a genetic disease	.
rd-disab	5	18	In the third family although CLS had been suspected the clinical features were atypical and the degree of intellectual disability much less than expected	.
rd-disab	22	9	In the group of congenital myopathic dystrophies associated with mental retardation and structural brain abnormalities two main entities are genetically characterized 1 Fukuyama congenital myopathic dystrophy affecting the Japanese population is due to fukutin gene mutations and 2 the muscle eye brain syndrome assigned to chromosome 1p32 34	.
rd-disab	39	9	In the group of congenital myopathic dystrophies associated with mental retardation and structural brain abnormalities two main entities are genetically characterized 1 Fukuyama congenital myopathic dystrophy affecting the Japanese population is due to fukutin gene mutations and 2 the muscle eye brain syndrome assigned to chromosome 1p32 34	.
rd-disab	12	7	Owing to the unknown pathogenesis of the progressive hearing loss seen in CINCA syndrome and the limited effectiveness of anakinra in reversing the progressive hearing loss we suggest that cochlear implantation is the modality of choice in rehabilitating severe to profound hearing loss not responsive to anakinra	.
rd-disab	1	8	Four NS patients received cochlear implants for their severe sensorineural hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	0	28	Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase 1 CPS1 deficiency CPS1D is an inborn error of the urea cycle having autosomal 2q34 recessive inheritance that can cause hyperammonemia and neonatal death or mental retardation	.
rd-disab	3	22	In children with severe generalized recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa RDEB esophageal scarring leads to esophageal strictures with dysphagia followed by malnutrition and delayed development	.
rd-disab	7	13	The authors emphasise the need to consider monosomy 1p36 as a cause of severe psychomotor delay and obesity	.
rd-disab	0	9	CCS is a genetic disorder that universally results in profound deficits in expressive speech	.
rd-disab	0	22	Opitz G BBB syndrome OS is a congenital midline malformation syndrome characterized by hypertelorism hypospadias cleft lip palate laryngotracheoesophageal abnormalities imperforate anus developmental delay and cardiac defects	.
rd-disab	6	0	Cerebellar ataxia is commonly observed in hyperornithinemia hyperammonemia homocitrullinuria HHH syndrome an inherited metabolic disorder biochemically characterized by ornithine Orn homocitrulline Hcit and ammonia accumulation	.
rd-disab	15	15	Five out of 6 individuals suffered from progressive myopathy and 2 out of 6 from frontotemporal dementia respectively	.
rd-disab	0	15	Mowat Wilson syndrome MWS is a rare genetic syndrome characterized by a specific facial gestalt intellectual deficiency Hirschsprung disease and multiple congenital anomalies	.
rd-disab	6	13	Here we describe a case of GS presenting in infancy with hypokalemia and psychomotor retardation	.
rd-disab	8	8	On the other hand decreased activity leads to X linked nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness DFNX 2 Charcot Marie Tooth disease 5 CMTX5 and Arts syndrome depending on the residual activity of PRS I	.
rd-disab	9	23	RESULTS All patients exhibited the core clinical symptoms of WHS including severe growth delay a Greek warrior helmet facial appearance differing degrees of intellectual disability and epilepsy or electroencephalogram anomalies	.
rd-disab	9	11	RESULTS All patients exhibited the core clinical symptoms of WHS including severe growth delay a Greek warrior helmet facial appearance differing degrees of intellectual disability and epilepsy or electroencephalogram anomalies	.
rd-disab	18	18	However there is a dearth of research evaluating the health and wellbeing of family caregivers of patients with frontotemporal dementia	.
rd-disab	2	7	Infants with PDs are usually presented with developmental delay visual and hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	2	9	Infants with PDs are usually presented with developmental delay visual and hearing impairment	.
rd-disab	1	38	The Rieger syndrome is characterized by mesoectodermal dysplasia of the iris and cornea dental defects in some cases short stature abnormal external ears hypertelorism arachnodactyly polydactyly scoliosis kyphosis imperforate anus umbilical hernia myopathy and in a few cases mental retardation	.
rd-disab	0	26	Waardenburg Shah syndrome Waardenburg syndrome type IV WS4 is an auditory pigmentary disorder that combines clinical features of pigmentary abnormalities of the skin hair and irides sensorineural hearing loss and Hirschsprung disease HSCR	.
rd-disab	6	9	Anecdotal reports suggest a relationship between Darier disease and intellectual disabilities but these reports are based on small clinical samples and limited by absence of control populations	.
rd-disab	3	25	Clinical features of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI are muscle weakness and atrophy in leg and hand muscles leading to progressive disability and loss of vision and progressing to blindness due to optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	3	34	Clinical features of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI are muscle weakness and atrophy in leg and hand muscles leading to progressive disability and loss of vision and progressing to blindness due to optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	3	31	Clinical features of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI are muscle weakness and atrophy in leg and hand muscles leading to progressive disability and loss of vision and progressing to blindness due to optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	0	10	WHS is characterized by typical facial appearance Greek helmet facies mental retardation congenital hypotonia and growth retardation	.
rd-disab	0	15	WHS is characterized by typical facial appearance Greek helmet facies mental retardation congenital hypotonia and growth retardation	.
rd-disab	20	36	Here we report on a 15 year old boy who was referred for MID1 mutation analysis with findings typical of OS including apparent hypertelorism hypospadias a history of feeding difficulties dysphagia secondary to esophageal arteria lusoria growth retardation and developmental delay	.
rd-disab	2	21	Though uncommon Langerhans cell histiocytosis should be considered among the differentials of persistent otological symptoms as its progressive nature can cause bilateral irreversible sensorineural hearing loss	.
rd-disab	31	26	Recent studies have uncovered mechanisms by which mutations of the gene encoding plant homeodomain PHD like finger protein 6 PHF6 contribute to the pathogenesis of the X linked intellectual disability disorder Borjeson Forssman Lehmann syndrome BFLS	.
rd-disab	6	6	Greater monitoring deficits were apparent in frontotemporal dementia than in Alzheimer s disease and participants with frontotemporal dementia were less likely to utilize task experience to update and improve the accuracy of subsequent monitoring judgments	.
rd-disab	6	6	Greater monitoring deficits were apparent in frontotemporal dementia than in Alzheimer s disease and participants with frontotemporal dementia were less likely to utilize task experience to update and improve the accuracy of subsequent monitoring judgments	.
rd-disab	0	20	Wolfram syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder presenting with the main clinical symptoms of childhood onset diabetes mellitus optic atrophy diabetes insipidus and deafness DIDMOAD	.
rd-disab	0	25	Wolfram syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder presenting with the main clinical symptoms of childhood onset diabetes mellitus optic atrophy diabetes insipidus and deafness DIDMOAD	.
rd-disab	19	14	More interestingly we also identified monoallelic ALDH18A1 mutations segregating in three independent families with autosomal dominant pure or complex hereditary spastic paraplegia as well as in two sporadic patients	.
rd-disab	19	19	More interestingly we also identified monoallelic ALDH18A1 mutations segregating in three independent families with autosomal dominant pure or complex hereditary spastic paraplegia as well as in two sporadic patients	.
rd-disab	3	9	CONCLUSION Patients with MWS are at risk of developing progressive sensorineural hearing loss without vestibular involvement	.
rd-disab	16	27	Taken together our data indicate that redox homeostasis is disturbed by the major metabolites accumulating in HHH syndrome and that this mechanism may be implicated in the ataxia and cerebellar abnormalities observed in this disorder	.
rd-disab	9	11	Although the literature offers conflicting evidence for association of NF1 and autism there has been no systematic evaluation of autism traits in the RASopathies as a class to support a role for germline Ras MAPK activation in ASDs	.
rd-disab	0	9	Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS encompasses multiple congenital anomalies and mental retardation and is caused by partial deletions in the short arm of chromosome 4	.
rd-disab	0	3	CHARGE association with hearing impairment is a challenge to ENT surgeons	.
rd-disab	33	9	One of our adult patients had several types of movement disorder and epilepsy that merged seamlessly there was true cataplexy triggered by telling a joke something close to cataplexy cataplexy triggered by sound startle a predominantly hypertonic reaction varying from hyperekplexia to a more prolonged tonic reaction resembling startle epilepsy and true unprovoked epileptic seizures	.
rd-disab	0	13	Fragile X Syndrome FXS is a leading genetic cause of intellectual disability and autism	.
rd-disab	0	10	Fragile X Syndrome FXS is a leading genetic cause of intellectual disability and autism	.
rd-disab	1	12	The Cockayne syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by a general developmental delay the unique face and abnormal skin sensitivity to sunlight	.
rd-disab	0	16	Frontotemporal dementia is an umbrella clinical term that encompasses a group of neurodegenerative diseases characterised by progressive deficits in behaviour executive function or language	.
rd-disab	0	0	Frontotemporal dementia is an umbrella clinical term that encompasses a group of neurodegenerative diseases characterised by progressive deficits in behaviour executive function or language	.
rd-disab	0	10	Choroideremia is an X linked recessive disease that leads to blindness due to mutations in the CHM gene which encodes the Rab escort protein 1 REP1	.
rd-disab	0	20	CHARGE association CA consists of a non random association of ocular coloboma C heart anomaly H atresia of choanae A retarded growth and or development R genital hypoplasia G and ear anomalies and or hearing impairment E	.
rd-disab	0	34	CHARGE association CA consists of a non random association of ocular coloboma C heart anomaly H atresia of choanae A retarded growth and or development R genital hypoplasia G and ear anomalies and or hearing impairment E	.
rd-disab	9	0	Swallowing dysfunction was found in 80 of patients with Kennedy disease	.
rd-disab	6	18	This observation reinforces the hypothesis that additional copies of proximal chromosome 15q11 segment may be causally related to mental retardation and dysmorphic features	.
rd-disab	4	9	In addition siblings with Alström s syndrome characterized by pigmentary retinal degeneration causing blindness in early childhood progressive sensorineural hearing loss and progressive renal failure are reported	.
rd-disab	4	17	In addition siblings with Alström s syndrome characterized by pigmentary retinal degeneration causing blindness in early childhood progressive sensorineural hearing loss and progressive renal failure are reported	.
rd-disab	0	5	Norrie disease is a rare X linked recessive neurodevelopmental disorder	.
rd-disab	10	10	These findings indicate a clinically and genetically distinct form of hereditary spastic paraplegia with amyotrophy designated SPG43	.
rd-disab	0	23	Hunter syndrome is generally considered to have two manifestations an attenuated form and a severe form in the latter the person has pronounced cognitive decline	.
rd-disab	17	13	Mosaic inactivation of the normal gene may cause expression of the mutation with severe vision loss in choroideremia carriers	.
rd-disab	0	23	Congenital hypothyroidism is associated with delay in cell migration and proliferation in brain tissue impairment of synapse formation misregulation of neurotransmitters hypomyelination and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	0	21	Townes Brocks syndrome TBS is an autosomal dominantly inherited malformation syndrome characterized by imperforate anus and limb and ear malformations with sensorineural hearing loss	.
rd-disab	32	17	Here we report the clinical history and neuroimaging studies of a child with a complex cardiac malformation developmental delay and oculomotor anomalies whose neuroimaging findings were consistent with an acquired form of DWM	.
rd-disab	32	20	Here we report the clinical history and neuroimaging studies of a child with a complex cardiac malformation developmental delay and oculomotor anomalies whose neuroimaging findings were consistent with an acquired form of DWM	.
rd-disab	1	12	Furthermore 1p36 deletion syndrome should be considered for patients presenting seizure and moderate to severe developmental delay particularly if the patient exhibits dysmorphic features short stature and hypotonia	.
rd-disab	34	27	The current results provide preliminary evidence for a distinct schizophrenia subgroup distinguishable from other chronic schizophrenia patients by poorer clinical and functional status who have levels of cognitive impairment comparable to those seen in bvFTD patients	.
rd-disab	16	11	These cases suggest that there may be an increased incidence of mental retardation in individuals with TBS	.
rd-disab	1	1	The retinal dystrophy of the mother was classified as a cone rod dystrophy	.
rd-disab	4	14	Providers must therefore consider del22q11 as a potential diagnosis in children and adults with behavioral and psychiatric problems	.
rd-disab	11	1	CONCLUSION Optic atrophy should be included in the clinical spectrum of DRPLA	.
rd-disab	0	10	Down Syndrome DS is the most common genetic cause of mental retardation with a reported frequency of epilepsy between 1 4 17 1	.
rd-disab	0	17	Wolfram syndrome is one of the rare autosomal recessive progressive neurodegenerative disorders characterized by diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	7	9	Rsk2 knockout mice a murine model of CLS exhibit spatial learning and memory impairments yet the underlying neural mechanisms are unknown	.
rd-disab	0	18	Costello syndrome is a congenital disorder comprising a characteristic face severe feeding difficulties skeletal cardiac and skin abnormalities intellectual disability and predisposition to malignancies	.
rd-disab	11	24	The 5p15 2 has been defined as a critical region for CdC syndrome however genotype phenotype studies allowed isolation of particular characteristics such as speech delay cat like cry and mental retardation caused by distinct deletions of 5p	.
rd-disab	0	15	Charcot Marie Tooth disease type 4D CMT4D is an autosomal recessive demyelinating polyneuropathy associated with deafness exclusively found in Gypsies and resulting from a homozygous R148X mutation in the N myc downstream regulated gene 1 NDRG1	.
rd-disab	6	10	BACKGROUND The main features of the Coffin Lowry syndrome are mental retardation and features of a peculiar pugilistic nose large ears tapered fingers drumstick terminal phalanges by X rays and kyphoscoliosis	.
rd-disab	23	23	These results are the first indications of distinct cerebellar and extracerebellar and or subcortical contributions to the range of cognitive domains affected in ataxia telangiectasia and need to be confirmed in future studies	.
rd-disab	5	5	He was diagnosed as having episodic ataxia type 2 because the administration of acetazolamide seemed effective	.
rd-disab	0	12	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is an X linked semi dominant condition with learning difficulties and dysmorphism caused by mutations in the gene RSK2	.
rd-disab	0	19	Pelizaeus Merzbacher like disease PMLD is an autosomal recessive hypomyelinating disorder of the central nervous system characterized by nystagmus motor developmental delay ataxia and progressive spasticity	.
rd-disab	0	22	Pelizaeus Merzbacher like disease PMLD is an autosomal recessive hypomyelinating disorder of the central nervous system characterized by nystagmus motor developmental delay ataxia and progressive spasticity	.
rd-disab	5	12	These include neurofibromatosis tuberous sclerosis Fragile X syndrome other inherited forms of mental retardation cretinism Coffin Lowry syndrome lead poisoning Rett syndrome epilepsy hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy and cerebral palsy	.
rd-disab	11	31	In light of these findings we concluded that a 25 of CH patients detected by CH screening may show at a median age of 15 4 years a mild and subclinical hearing impairment despite early and adequate replacement treatment b the risk of hearing loss is higher in CH young patients than in age matched control subjects without CH c the risk of hearing loss is closely associated with the severity of CH d this risk is particularly relevant in the children with pre natal onset of hypothyroidism	.
rd-disab	11	16	CONCLUSION The description of a hearing defect in 2 brothers with Kallmann syndrome allows asserting that deafness is part of the clinical features of this disease and must lead the physician to monitor the hearing function of Kallmann patients	.
rd-disab	17	12	Recessive mutations of the SLC26A4 PDS gene on chromosome 7q31 can cause sensorineural hearing loss with goiter Pendred syndrome or non syndromic autosomal recessive hearing loss DFNB4	.
rd-disab	2	10	Screening for aspartylglucosaminuria should be done in all patients with unexplained psychomotor retardation	.
rd-disab	5	5	While a novel variant of hereditary spastic paraplegia HSP was initially hypothesized in this family previous linkage studies of known HSP genes did not identify the genetic cause	.
rd-disab	9	3	PURPOSE To investigate severe unilateral vision loss in a choroideremia carrier	.
rd-disab	0	39	Lujan Lujan Fryns syndrome is characterised by tall stature with asthenic habitus macrocephaly a tall narrow face maxillary hypoplasia a high narrow palate with dental crowding a small or receding chin long hands with hyperextensible digits hypernasal speech hypotonia mild to moderate mental retardation behavioural aberrations and dysgenesis of the corpus callosum	.
rd-disab	0	44	Lujan Lujan Fryns syndrome is characterised by tall stature with asthenic habitus macrocephaly a tall narrow face maxillary hypoplasia a high narrow palate with dental crowding a small or receding chin long hands with hyperextensible digits hypernasal speech hypotonia mild to moderate mental retardation behavioural aberrations and dysgenesis of the corpus callosum	.
rd-disab	6	6	Missense mutations are rare causes of Friedreich ataxia that can only be detected by sequencing of the FXN gene	.
rd-disab	0	23	Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome is caused by a deletion of the distal portion of the short arm of chromosome 4 and is characterized by psychomotor retardation seizures congenital malformations and typical facial appearance including Greek warrior helmet appearance of the nose	.
rd-disab	11	18	We present a case of a 12 year old girl with Crouzon syndrome displaying classic facial abnormalities with reduced vision and hearing loss	.
rd-disab	11	21	We present a case of a 12 year old girl with Crouzon syndrome displaying classic facial abnormalities with reduced vision and hearing loss	.
rd-disab	14	36	Although recent studies support the potential therapeutic benefits of targeting the skeletal muscle in ALS relatively little is known about inflammation and glial responses in skeletal muscle and near NMJs or how these responses contribute to motor neuron survival neuromuscular innervation or motor dysfunction in ALS	.
rd-disab	11	23	To present the detailed clinical findings of a large family with hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI HMSN VI a syndrome featuring optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	9	19	Deficiency of CAII gives rise to a syndrome of osteopetrosis renal tubular acidosis RTA and cerebral calcification with associated developmental delay	.
rd-disab	12	3	RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS Behavioral and psychiatric problems are common in patients with del22q11 syndrome	.
rd-disab	14	0	Multiple congenital anomalies and craniofacial dysmorphism are characterizing the so called Emanuel or supernumerary der 22 t 11 22 syndrome OMIM609029	.
rd-disab	0	6	Pitt Hopkins syndrome is a rare dysmorphic mental retardation syndrome marked by daytime spells of overbreathing interrupted by apnoea	.
rd-disab	9	9	Inclusion body myopathy Paget disease of bone and or frontotemporal dementia is an autosomal dominant disease caused by mutations in the Valosin Containing Protein VCP gene	.
rd-disab	1	29	Shah Waardenburg syndrome is a rare congenital disorder with variable clinical expression characterised by aganglionosis of the rectosigmoïd Hirschsprung disease and abnormal melanocyte migration resulting in pigmentary abnormalities and sensorineural deafness Waardenburg syndrome	.
rd-disab	0	16	Mucopolysaccharidosis type I MPS I is an autosomal recessive disease that is systemic including progressive neurodegeneration mental retardation and death before the age of 10years	.
rd-disab	0	18	Choroideremia CHM an X linked degeneration of the retinal pigmented epithelium RPE photoreceptors and choroid ultimately leads to blindness	.
rd-disab	21	21	In this study we evaluated baseline plasma cardiac troponin I levels among a cross sectional cohort of 49 pediatric and adult Friedreich ataxia subjects without active arrhythmia chest pain or features of acute coronary syndrome at the time of sampling	.
rd-disab	0	6	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS is a mental retardation syndrome with distinctive behavioral characteristics dysmorphic features and congenital anomalies ascribed to an interstitial deletion of chromosome 17p11 2	.
rd-disab	0	25	Wolfram syndrome is a rare neurodegenerative and genetic disorder which should be suspected in patients with young onset non immune insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and optic atrophy	.
rd-disab	12	12	We present two women with the right temporal lobe variant RTLV of frontotemporal dementia FTD and analyse the clinical features that are determined by the anatomical distribution of atrophy	.
rd-disab	9	6	PURPOSE To report the association of optic atrophy with cobalamin C cblC disease	.
rd-disab	13	4	These results reveal that face perception and face memory deficits are common in bvFTD and SD and have been previously underestimated	.
rd-disab	13	1	BACKGROUND Cognitive impairment has been reported in a significant proportion of patients with congenital muscular dystrophies CMD generally associated with brain changes	.
rd-disab	10	30	The most severe phenotypes are Walker Warburg Syndrome WWS and muscle eye brain disease MEB presenting with lissencephaly type II LIS II and in which muscular dystrophy is associated with mental retardation and eye abnormalities	.
rd-disab	25	30	The most severe phenotypes are Walker Warburg Syndrome WWS and muscle eye brain disease MEB presenting with lissencephaly type II LIS II and in which muscular dystrophy is associated with mental retardation and eye abnormalities	.
rd-disab	5	11	Our aim was to identify fragile X syndrome among children with intellectual disability in Saudi Arabia	.
rd-disab	0	7	Mowat Wilson Syndrome is a recently delineated mental retardation syndrome usually associated with multiple malformations and a recognizable facial phenotype caused by defects of the transcriptional repressor ZFHX1B	.
rd-disab	1	4	COMMENT Choroideremia is a degenerative retinal disease recognized in the late stages by a near total absence of the choriocapillaris retinal pigment epithelium and neurosensory retina	.
rd-disab	8	19	Compared to patients with stroke however AD and bvFTD showed more bilateral or even right lateralized neural representations of limb apraxia proposing a greater influence of visuospatial impairments and spatial body representation deficits on praxis performance	.
rd-disab	8	26	Compared to patients with stroke however AD and bvFTD showed more bilateral or even right lateralized neural representations of limb apraxia proposing a greater influence of visuospatial impairments and spatial body representation deficits on praxis performance	.
rd-disab	3	0	Hearing loss in Fechtner syndrome appears to be sensorineural with the higher frequencies primarily affected	.
rd-disab	1	16	CONCLUSIONS Jervell and Lange Nielsen syndrome is a very rare condition even in a population with hearing loss	.
rd-disab	18	18	In this report we present the case of a 7 year old boy who presented with mental retardation atypical autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder	.
rd-disab	12	18	There is a paucity of data in the literature regarding epilepsy in Down syndrome and its relation to intellectual disability	.
rd-disab	7	7	Genetics is an important risk factor for frontotemporal dementia	.
rd-disab	0	6	Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome WHS is a rare developmental disorder associated with hemizygous deletion of short arm of chromosome 4	.
rd-disab	0	12	Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome LEMS is characterized by fluctuating muscle weakness and autonomic dysfunction	.
rd-disab	0	19	West syndrome WS is a severe age related acute epileptic encephalopathy of infancy characterized by infantile spasms hypsarrhythmia and psychomotor delay	.
rd-disab	5	7	The typical clinical manifestations of PMD include psychomotor retardation nystagmus abnormal muscle tone seizures and cognitive impairment	.
rd-disab	5	15	The typical clinical manifestations of PMD include psychomotor retardation nystagmus abnormal muscle tone seizures and cognitive impairment	.
rd-disab	3	12	Partial or complete trisomy 5p has been associated with characteristic facial features developmental delay seizures congenital heart defects and respiratory compromise	.
rd-disab	18	10	Several of these genes have also been implicated in other non syndromic or syndromic retinal diseases such as retinitis pigmentosa and Joubert syndrome respectively	.
rd-disab	2	17	In addition CMT patients were exposed to a higher risk of reduced quality of life and significant sleep impairment	.
rd-disab	9	9	SCA1 may rarely present with pure spastic paraplegia resembling hereditary spastic paraplegia before the appearance of cerebellar signs	.
rd-disab	0	5	SCA1 may rarely present with pure spastic paraplegia resembling hereditary spastic paraplegia before the appearance of cerebellar signs	.
rd-disab	5	15	Of the three cases of CRS that occurred in 2012 conditions included cardiac defects cataracts hearing impairment and pericardial effusion in one infant patent ductus arteriosus cardiomegaly thrombocytopenia and pneumonitis in a second infant and cataracts thrombocytopenia and cardiac defects in a third infant	.
rd-disab	0	18	Smith Magenis syndrome SMS0 is a complex and rare genetic multisystem disorder characterized by a variable pattern of cognitive deficits accompanied by a1 distinctive behavioral phenotype	.
rd-disab	1	10	BACKGROUND Pendred syndrome is a common autosomal recessive disorder causing deafness	.
rd-disab	7	0	Attention and behavioral issues are common in Sturge Weber syndrome	.
rd-disab	1	11	CONCLUSION Glutaric aciduria type 1 usually induced neurological deterioration resulting in severe psychomotor retardation and dystonia	.
rd-disab	15	10	AGR syndrome the clinical triad of aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation a subgroup of WAGR syndrome for Wilm s tumor aniridia genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation is a rare syndrome caused by a contiguous gene deletion in the 11p13 14 region	.
rd-disab	0	25	Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy CADASIL is a genetically transmitted small vessel disease clinically characterized by migraine recurrent subcortical strokes and cognitive and mood disorders	.
rd-disab	0	11	Muckle Wells syndrome is characterized by recurrent fever and urticarial rash progressive sensorineural deafness and the development of secondary amyloidosis but it is not considered the most severe disease of this group	.
rd-disab	5	16	The neuropsychological pattern in possible bvFTD and pre bvFTD was similar although possible bvFTD showed more behavioral abnormalities	.
rd-disab	28	24	The majority of the hearing loss is a conductive hearing loss with the exception of Muenke syndrome where the majority of patients have a sensorineural hearing loss and Crouzon syndrome where almost half of patients have a pure or component of sensorineural hearing loss	.
rd-disab	17	17	We present the clinical data of four patients aged 821 years with childhood onset neurogenetic disorders including ataxia telangiectasia Coffin Lowry syndrome and epileptic encephalopathy due to SCN1A mutations	.
rd-disab	5	8	CONCLUSIONS More than half the CADASIL patients had emotional disturbances either DED or NDED	.
rd-disab	0	5	Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome is a developmental disorder associated with hemizygous deletion of the distal short arm of chromosome 4	.
rd-disab	0	11	Coffin Lowry syndrome CLS is an X linked disorder associated with mental retardation distinctive facies and hands hypotonia and skeletal abnormalities	.
rd-disab	0	7	Smith Lemli Opitz syndrome SLOS is a developmental disorder resulting from mutations to the Dhcr7 gene which is required for cholesterol synthesis	.
rd-disab	4	18	Among known etiologic causes congenital rubella syndrome CRS is reported to be one of the infections associated with neurodevelopmental disorders	.
rd-disab	0	7	Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy FCMD characterized by intellectual impairment associated with cortical migration defects is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutation in the fukutin gene	.
rd-disab	3	5	In contrast only bvFTD showed impaired object recognition with SD performing within normal limits on this task	.
rd-disab	3	24	The diagnosis of PMR is based on clinical features such as new onset bilateral shoulder pain including subdeltoid bursitis muscle or joint stiffness and functional impairment	.
rd-disab	6	9	Four children showed symptoms characteristic of Stickler syndrome including moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss moderate to high myopia with vitreoretinopathy and epiphyseal dysplasia	.
rd-disab	2	18	IMPORTANCE Congenital hypotrichosis with juvenile macular dystrophy HJMD is a rare disorder presenting in childhood and adolescence with central visual disturbance and sparse scalp hair	.
rd-disab	8	22	Despite variation in size of the 9p duplications trisomy 9p syndrome is characterized by typical dysmorphic features and a variable but constant psychomotor and mental retardation	.
rd-disab	8	13	However nowadays the previously reported cases as having Ramsay Hunt syndrome associated with Friedreich s ataxia are regarded as having been suffered from MERRF	.
None	22	27	Danon disease an X linked dominant disorder results from mutations in the lysosome associated membrane protein 2 LAMP2 gene and presents with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy skeletal myopathy and mental retardation	.
None	4	9	For conscripted individuals with Darier disease but no diagnosed intellectual disability mean cognitive ability scores were about half a standard deviation lower than for comparison subjects	.
None	15	19	West syndrome WS is a severe age related acute epileptic encephalopathy of infancy characterized by infantile spasms hypsarrhythmia and psychomotor delay	.
None	26	31	A 48 year old man presented with a complex phenotype of myoclonus epilepsy with ragged red fibers MERRF syndrome and Kearns Sayre syndrome KSS which included progressive myoclonus epilepsy cerebellar ataxia hearing loss myopathic weakness ophthalmoparesis pigmentary retinopathy bifascicular heart block and ragged red fibers	.
None	26	29	A 48 year old man presented with a complex phenotype of myoclonus epilepsy with ragged red fibers MERRF syndrome and Kearns Sayre syndrome KSS which included progressive myoclonus epilepsy cerebellar ataxia hearing loss myopathic weakness ophthalmoparesis pigmentary retinopathy bifascicular heart block and ragged red fibers	.
None	8	32	Thus Rsk2 loss of function as seen in CLS perturbs the differentiation of neural precursors into neurons and maintains them instead as proliferating radial precursor cells a defect that may underlie the cognitive dysfunction seen in CLS	.
None	24	12	In cases of gouty arthritis with urate overproduction a careful evaluation for motor impairments or neurocognitive abnormalities may help to identify attenuated variants of Lesch Nyhan disease for better management	.
None	24	15	In cases of gouty arthritis with urate overproduction a careful evaluation for motor impairments or neurocognitive abnormalities may help to identify attenuated variants of Lesch Nyhan disease for better management	.
None	11	11	To assess the role of oxidative stress in lipid peroxidation in Friedreich ataxia we used the novel approach of treating Friedreich ataxia cell models with polyunsaturated fatty acids PUFAs deuterated at bis allylic sites	.
None	11	11	To assess the role of oxidative stress in lipid peroxidation in Friedreich ataxia we used the novel approach of treating Friedreich ataxia cell models with polyunsaturated fatty acids PUFAs deuterated at bis allylic sites	.
None	19	17	As there are some evidences about the role of the immune system defects in the pathogenesis of autism specific primary antibody deficiency diseases such as CVID might predispose some affected cases to such neurodevelopmental disorders	.
None	14	7	Kabuki Niikawa Kuroki syndrome is associated with growth retardation developmental delay congenital heart disease cleft palate and characteristic facial features	.
None	14	9	Kabuki Niikawa Kuroki syndrome is associated with growth retardation developmental delay congenital heart disease cleft palate and characteristic facial features	.
None	29	32	BACKGROUND The classic form of Chédiak Higashi syndrome CHS an autosomal recessive disorder of lysosomal trafficking with childhood onset caused by mutations in ITALIC! LYST is typified ophthalmologically by ocular albinism with vision loss attributed to foveal hypoplasia or nystagmus	.
None	5	1	The hearing impairment due to USH gene defects has been shown to result from improper organisation of the hair bundle the sound receptive structure of sensory hair cells	.
None	15	20	The aim of this study was to identify the causative gene in a family with CMTX with peripheral neuropathy and deafness	.
None	18	29	Shah Waardenburg syndrome is a rare congenital disorder with variable clinical expression characterised by aganglionosis of the rectosigmoïd Hirschsprung disease and abnormal melanocyte migration resulting in pigmentary abnormalities and sensorineural deafness Waardenburg syndrome	.
None	2	20	The typical cri du chat syndrome due to 5p15 2 deletion includes severe intellectual disability facial dysmorphisms neonatal hypotonia and pre and post natal growth retardation whereas more distal deletions in 5p15 3 lead to cat like cry and speech delay and produce the clinical picture of the atypical cri du chat syndrome with minimal or absent intellectual impairment	.
None	2	39	The typical cri du chat syndrome due to 5p15 2 deletion includes severe intellectual disability facial dysmorphisms neonatal hypotonia and pre and post natal growth retardation whereas more distal deletions in 5p15 3 lead to cat like cry and speech delay and produce the clinical picture of the atypical cri du chat syndrome with minimal or absent intellectual impairment	.
None	2	13	The typical cri du chat syndrome due to 5p15 2 deletion includes severe intellectual disability facial dysmorphisms neonatal hypotonia and pre and post natal growth retardation whereas more distal deletions in 5p15 3 lead to cat like cry and speech delay and produce the clinical picture of the atypical cri du chat syndrome with minimal or absent intellectual impairment	.
None	2	12	The typical cri du chat syndrome due to 5p15 2 deletion includes severe intellectual disability facial dysmorphisms neonatal hypotonia and pre and post natal growth retardation whereas more distal deletions in 5p15 3 lead to cat like cry and speech delay and produce the clinical picture of the atypical cri du chat syndrome with minimal or absent intellectual impairment	.
None	9	32	We analyzed temporal and stride characteristics in patients with myotonic dystrophy type 1 DM1 and type 2 DM2 while performing dual mental and motor tasks and investigated correlations between gait parameters and cognitive impairments	.
None	19	3	DRS associated with intellectual disability or developmental delay is observed in several genetic diseases syndromes such as Goldenhar or Wildervanck syndrome and chromosomal anomalies such as 12q12 deletion	.
None	19	6	DRS associated with intellectual disability or developmental delay is observed in several genetic diseases syndromes such as Goldenhar or Wildervanck syndrome and chromosomal anomalies such as 12q12 deletion	.
None	34	15	CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE C9ORF72 repeat expansions have a primary role in increasing the risk of cognitive impairment in patients with ALS the APOE ε2 allele to a lesser extent also increases the risk of FTD	.
None	9	17	Three children were diagnosed with the intermediate form of maple syrup urine disease during routine evaluation of mental retardation	.
None	11	30	The second case is a 13 year old boy with a ring chromosome 15 who was referred to the Laboratory of Cytogenetic and Biology of Reproduction in Sousse Tunisia for mental retardation epilepsy speech delay hypotonia and other mild dysmorphic features	.
None	11	33	The second case is a 13 year old boy with a ring chromosome 15 who was referred to the Laboratory of Cytogenetic and Biology of Reproduction in Sousse Tunisia for mental retardation epilepsy speech delay hypotonia and other mild dysmorphic features	.
None	8	5	We assessed the nature of swallowing impairment in Kennedy disease by undertaking fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing examinations of 10 genetically confirmed patients with Kennedy disease who were scored according to an ordinal rating scale including 25 different items	.
None	37	35	Children with severe form diagnosed at 12 36 months have coarse facial feature short stature joint stiffness short neck broad chest large head circumference watery diarrhea skeletal changes progressive and profound mental retardation retinal degeneration hearing loss cardiomyopathy valvular involvement with progressive thickening and stiffening of the valve leaflets leading to mitral and aortic regurgitation and stenosis	.
None	37	28	Children with severe form diagnosed at 12 36 months have coarse facial feature short stature joint stiffness short neck broad chest large head circumference watery diarrhea skeletal changes progressive and profound mental retardation retinal degeneration hearing loss cardiomyopathy valvular involvement with progressive thickening and stiffening of the valve leaflets leading to mitral and aortic regurgitation and stenosis	.
None	37	33	Children with severe form diagnosed at 12 36 months have coarse facial feature short stature joint stiffness short neck broad chest large head circumference watery diarrhea skeletal changes progressive and profound mental retardation retinal degeneration hearing loss cardiomyopathy valvular involvement with progressive thickening and stiffening of the valve leaflets leading to mitral and aortic regurgitation and stenosis	.
None	11	5	CONCLUSION The description of a hearing defect in 2 brothers with Kallmann syndrome allows asserting that deafness is part of the clinical features of this disease and must lead the physician to monitor the hearing function of Kallmann patients	.
None	19	22	We report two male siblings ages 19 and 14 and an unrelated 6 year old female with early onset muscular dystrophy and intellectual disability with minimal structural brain anomalies and no ocular abnormalities	.
None	19	31	We report two male siblings ages 19 and 14 and an unrelated 6 year old female with early onset muscular dystrophy and intellectual disability with minimal structural brain anomalies and no ocular abnormalities	.
None	7	12	The model is consistent with reductions in CRS based on surveillance of congenital hearing impairment	.
None	11	23	We present a case of steroid dependent auditory neuropathy associated with CMT in which the patient experienced 3 episodes of acute exacerbation of hearing loss and successful rescue of hearing by prednisolone	.
None	4	23	However findings related to WS4 were variable Patient 1 had hypopigmentation of the irides and HSCR Patient 2 had prominent bicolored irides and mild bilateral hearing loss and Patient 3 had only mild unilateral hearing loss	.
None	4	23	However findings related to WS4 were variable Patient 1 had hypopigmentation of the irides and HSCR Patient 2 had prominent bicolored irides and mild bilateral hearing loss and Patient 3 had only mild unilateral hearing loss	.
None	3	1	Neuropathy ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa NARP syndrome and maternally inherited Leigh s syndrome have been associated with T8993G point mutations in the mitochondrial adenosine triphosphatase 6 gene	.
None	11	27	To be included patients had to present with the following triad cleft palate facial features hypoplastic midface micrognathia and prominent eyes and ocular anomalies myopia and or abnormalities of the retina	.
None	11	22	To be included patients had to present with the following triad cleft palate facial features hypoplastic midface micrognathia and prominent eyes and ocular anomalies myopia and or abnormalities of the retina	.
None	39	12	In conclusion we provide further evidences that extramuscular findings such as epilepsy speech delay and mental retardation may occur in those patients carrying smaller 4q35 deletions suggesting that a close correlation between 4q35 fragment size and clinical severity in FSHD is therefore not constant	.
None	39	15	In conclusion we provide further evidences that extramuscular findings such as epilepsy speech delay and mental retardation may occur in those patients carrying smaller 4q35 deletions suggesting that a close correlation between 4q35 fragment size and clinical severity in FSHD is therefore not constant	.
None	11	14	Here we report on an 11½ year old child with myopia Duane retraction syndrome bilateral mixed hearing loss skeletal anomalies including multiple epiphyseal dysplasia and global developmental delay and a complex 6p25 genomic rearrangement	.
None	11	25	Here we report on an 11½ year old child with myopia Duane retraction syndrome bilateral mixed hearing loss skeletal anomalies including multiple epiphyseal dysplasia and global developmental delay and a complex 6p25 genomic rearrangement	.
None	21	14	Here we report on an 11½ year old child with myopia Duane retraction syndrome bilateral mixed hearing loss skeletal anomalies including multiple epiphyseal dysplasia and global developmental delay and a complex 6p25 genomic rearrangement	.
None	21	25	Here we report on an 11½ year old child with myopia Duane retraction syndrome bilateral mixed hearing loss skeletal anomalies including multiple epiphyseal dysplasia and global developmental delay and a complex 6p25 genomic rearrangement	.
None	38	16	We discuss the involvement of the other deleted genes such as CAMK2A or SLC6A7 in the cognitive development delay of the patients reported and we propose the systematic investigation for 5q32 deletion when intellectual disability is associated with Treacher Collins syndrome	.
None	19	17	We present the clinical data of four patients aged 821 years with childhood onset neurogenetic disorders including ataxia telangiectasia Coffin Lowry syndrome and epileptic encephalopathy due to SCN1A mutations	.
None	20	30	Terminal deletions of the long arm of chromosome 4 are associated with a recognizable phenotype consisting of dysmorphic facial features cleft palate upper and lower limb malformations cardiac defects and growth and mental retardation	.
None	17	14	CONCLUSION Mutations in tRNAIle were described in patients with chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia CPEO prominent deafness or cardiomyopathy but up to now not in patients with myoclonic epilepsy	.
None	20	10	According to the survey conducted at special schools for the deaf 83 232 77 and 167 children were born with CRS on the Japanese mainland respectively after the 19651969 19751977 1982 and 19871988 nationwide rubella epidemics suggesting that the incidence of CRS in Japan is in fact comparable to that in the U S and Europe	.
None	20	10	According to the survey conducted at special schools for the deaf 83 232 77 and 167 children were born with CRS on the Japanese mainland respectively after the 19651969 19751977 1982 and 19871988 nationwide rubella epidemics suggesting that the incidence of CRS in Japan is in fact comparable to that in the U S and Europe	.
None	23	18	We explored the clinical presentation of patients with a very short 4q35 fragment 10 13 kb focusing on hearing loss a still debated FSHD extra muscular manifestation	.
None	22	7	In contrast the cellular basis of the visual defect is less well understood as this phenotype is absent in almost all the USH mouse models that faithfully mimic the human hearing impairment	.
None	22	30	In contrast the cellular basis of the visual defect is less well understood as this phenotype is absent in almost all the USH mouse models that faithfully mimic the human hearing impairment	.
None	14	6	The risk of being diagnosed with intellectual disability was estimated in 770 individuals with Darier disease compared with matched comparison individuals without Darier disease	.
None	1	17	Most PA patients present in the neonatal period with metabolic acidosis and hyperammonemia developing different neurological symptoms movement disorders and cardiac complications	.
None	10	32	Treacher Collins syndrome TCS OMIM 154500 is a well defined mandibulofacial dysostosis characterized by symmetric facial anomalies consisting of malar hypoplasia coloboma of the lower eyelid dysplastic ears micrognathia cleft palate and deafness	.
None	29	32	Treacher Collins syndrome TCS OMIM 154500 is a well defined mandibulofacial dysostosis characterized by symmetric facial anomalies consisting of malar hypoplasia coloboma of the lower eyelid dysplastic ears micrognathia cleft palate and deafness	.
None	17	15	From our series of patients one patient with PKAN and a progressive severe dystonic syndrome cerebellar ataxia retinitis pigmentosa and eventual anarthria had a novel combination of two compound heterozygote mutations identified in the PANK2 gene G >A transition at base 1238 G411R and a C >A transition at base 1184 A395E	.
None	2	24	Children with mucopolysaccharidosis I MPS I develop hyperintense white matter foci on T2 weighted brain magnetic resonance MR imaging that are associated clinically with cognitive impairment	.
None	7	4	No association between AR mental retardation and retinoblastoma has been described	.
None	27	8	Our literature review revealed the following incidences of hearing loss in FGFR craniosynostoses 61 in Muenke syndrome 80 in Apert Syndrome 92 in Pfeiffer syndrome 74 in Crouzon syndrome 68 in Jackson Weiss syndrome 4 in Beare Stevenson syndrome and 14 in Crouzon syndrome with Acanthosis Nigricans	.
None	7	10	Mutations in the SLC26A4 gene cause both Pendred syndrome and autosomal recessive nonsyndromic hearing loss ARNSHL at the DFNB4 locus	.
None	11	2	He presents mental retardation axial hypotonia hypertonia of arms and legs paroxysmal dyskinesias seizures	.
None	26	10	Using voxel based morphometry and multiple regression models associations between limb apraxia and gray matter GM volume were investigated in 36 dementia patients 18 AD 18 bvFTD in early disease stages	.
None	26	21	Using voxel based morphometry and multiple regression models associations between limb apraxia and gray matter GM volume were investigated in 36 dementia patients 18 AD 18 bvFTD in early disease stages	.
None	5	7	It is usually characterized by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy mental retardation and skeletal myopathy sometimes also with atypical features	.
None	0	33	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 SCA6 is caused by small CAG repeat expansion in the gene encoding the 1A voltage dependent calcium channel subunit CACNL1A4 on chromosome 19p13 and is a subgroup of the late onset pure cerebellar ataxia ADCA III	.
None	25	15	Pallister Killian syndrome PKS is a potentially lethal disorder with facial dysmorphism pigmentary skin anomalies developmental delay and major visceral anomalies such as diaphragmatic hernia anorectal malformation and congenital heart disease	.
None	12	3	Psychiatric disorders and psychosocial impairment are common yet poorly characterized findings in EDS patients	.
None	12	0	Psychiatric disorders and psychosocial impairment are common yet poorly characterized findings in EDS patients	.
None	5	36	A previous study in proximal myotonic myopathy PROMM DM 2 and myotonic dystrophy type 1 DM 1 using brain positron emission tomography demonstrated a reduced cerebral blood flow in the frontal and temporal regions associated with cognitive impairment	.
None	2	13	Forty four NS patients were seen by an otorhinolaryngologist for the analysis of hearing impairment	.
None	4	22	Diagnosis was infantile malignant osteopetrosis but the patient can not be referred to bone marrow transplantation due to delay in diagnosis and irreversible visual and hearing loss and lack of medullary space for marrow engraftment	.
None	2	22	Diagnosis was infantile malignant osteopetrosis but the patient can not be referred to bone marrow transplantation due to delay in diagnosis and irreversible visual and hearing loss and lack of medullary space for marrow engraftment	.
None	18	21	In this report we present the case of a 7 year old boy who presented with mental retardation atypical autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder	.
None	18	16	In this report we present the case of a 7 year old boy who presented with mental retardation atypical autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder	.
None	6	11	This mutation has been reported with MELAS myopathy and deafness with cognitive impairment	.
None	6	9	This mutation has been reported with MELAS myopathy and deafness with cognitive impairment	.
None	18	26	We report a case of a 3 5 year old 47 XXY male with the classic triad of Aicardi syndrome but with good seizure control and mild learning disability	.
None	15	11	We describe a 6 year old male with coarse facial features developmental delay refractory seizures hypertrophic cardiomyopathy who was later found to have Sandhoff disease	.
None	15	11	We describe a 6 year old male with coarse facial features developmental delay refractory seizures hypertrophic cardiomyopathy who was later found to have Sandhoff disease	.
None	7	19	Five patients were diagnosed as having primary distal renal tubular acidosis and rickets four were found to have severe sensorineural hearing loss of over 80 dB two of which are brothers	.
None	12	4	Forty two ascertained Cypriot sporadic ataxia patients the index case from 1 ADCA and 14 ARCA families and a cohort of normal population individuals were included in the study	.
None	11	18	Unlike many pathogenic mitochondrial DNA mutations the T8993G mutation associated with Leigh syndrome LS and neurogenic muscle weakness ataxia retinitis pigmentosa NARP typically shows little variation in mutant load between different tissue types	.
None	19	18	Unlike many pathogenic mitochondrial DNA mutations the T8993G mutation associated with Leigh syndrome LS and neurogenic muscle weakness ataxia retinitis pigmentosa NARP typically shows little variation in mutant load between different tissue types	.
None	17	15	Mowat Wilson syndrome MWS is a rare genetic syndrome characterized by a specific facial gestalt intellectual deficiency Hirschsprung disease and multiple congenital anomalies	.
None	20	8	Other features characteristic of the syndrome included intrauterine growth retardation IUGR slow weight gain frequent illness triangular face anteverted ears telecanthus deeply set eyes wide nasal bridge hypoplastic alae nasi chin dimple micrognathia clinodactyly partial lipodystrophy hearing loss functional heart murmur delayed bone age delayed speech normal intellect glucose intolerance and insulinopenic diabetes	.
None	20	36	Other features characteristic of the syndrome included intrauterine growth retardation IUGR slow weight gain frequent illness triangular face anteverted ears telecanthus deeply set eyes wide nasal bridge hypoplastic alae nasi chin dimple micrognathia clinodactyly partial lipodystrophy hearing loss functional heart murmur delayed bone age delayed speech normal intellect glucose intolerance and insulinopenic diabetes	.
None	20	41	Other features characteristic of the syndrome included intrauterine growth retardation IUGR slow weight gain frequent illness triangular face anteverted ears telecanthus deeply set eyes wide nasal bridge hypoplastic alae nasi chin dimple micrognathia clinodactyly partial lipodystrophy hearing loss functional heart murmur delayed bone age delayed speech normal intellect glucose intolerance and insulinopenic diabetes	.
None	6	6	Greater monitoring deficits were apparent in frontotemporal dementia than in Alzheimer s disease and participants with frontotemporal dementia were less likely to utilize task experience to update and improve the accuracy of subsequent monitoring judgments	.
None	6	6	Greater monitoring deficits were apparent in frontotemporal dementia than in Alzheimer s disease and participants with frontotemporal dementia were less likely to utilize task experience to update and improve the accuracy of subsequent monitoring judgments	.
None	9	16	Ellis van Creveld syndrome EVC is a chondral and ectodermal dysplasia characterized by short ribs polydactyly growth retardation and ectodermal and heart defects	.
None	0	28	Hyperornithinemia hyperammonemia and homocitrullinuria HHH syndrome is caused by mutations in the SLC25A15 ORNT1 gene encoding the mitochondrial ornithine transporter but the mechanism of pathogenesis of the encephalopathy spastic paraparesis and hepatopathy remains undetermined	.
None	7	3	These adults have moderate mental retardation ataxia retinitis pigmentosa peripheral neuropathy kyphoscoliosis and endocrinopathies	.
None	7	6	These adults have moderate mental retardation ataxia retinitis pigmentosa peripheral neuropathy kyphoscoliosis and endocrinopathies	.
None	30	27	We report on a female patient with an approximately 10 Mb interstitial deletion with many of the features of Jacobsen syndrome A congenital heart defect dysmorphic features developmental delay and Paris Trousseau syndrome	.
None	18	3	One child had sensorineural hearing loss microcytic anemia and a tethered spinal cord and the other had a patent ductus arteriosus and gonadal dysgenesis with sex reversal karyotype 46 XY female	.
None	21	42	The fourth family had a boy that died at 3 weeks of age with microcephaly dysmorphic facial features congenital heart disease mitral atresia and septal defects and Meckel diverticulum and a girl 5 years of age with intrauterine growth retardation microcephaly and mental retardation	.
None	12	7	His 12 Year old daughter also presented visual loss with severe bilateral corneal dystrophy and total congenital cataract associated with aniridia	.
None	20	7	His 12 Year old daughter also presented visual loss with severe bilateral corneal dystrophy and total congenital cataract associated with aniridia	.
None	15	18	Danon disease primary lysosome associated membrane protein 2 LAMP 2 deficiency is characterized clinically by cardiomyopathy myopathy and intellectual disability in boys	.
None	16	13	Infantile vitamin B12 deficiency has to be considered in the differential diagnosis of mental retardation and infantile spasms especially if maternal nutritional deficiency might be suspected	.
None	14	36	Although recent studies support the potential therapeutic benefits of targeting the skeletal muscle in ALS relatively little is known about inflammation and glial responses in skeletal muscle and near NMJs or how these responses contribute to motor neuron survival neuromuscular innervation or motor dysfunction in ALS	.
None	9	13	The moderate phenotypic expression of this mutation extends the CLS phenotype to include less severe mental retardation and minor hitherto unreported signs	.
None	30	7	When confronted with a patient with an isolated movement disorder that is without ataxia there is currently no reason to routinely screen for SCA gene mutations the only exceptions being SCA2 in autosomal dominant parkinsonism particularly in Asian patients and SCA17 in the case of a Huntington s disease like presentation without an HTT mutation	.
None	30	13	When confronted with a patient with an isolated movement disorder that is without ataxia there is currently no reason to routinely screen for SCA gene mutations the only exceptions being SCA2 in autosomal dominant parkinsonism particularly in Asian patients and SCA17 in the case of a Huntington s disease like presentation without an HTT mutation	.
None	3	9	We report a MEB case whose presenting sign was congenital blindness	.
None	22	17	Importantly our data imply that the same SOX10 mutations can underlie both typical WS and KS with deafness without skin hair hypopigmentation Hirschsprung disease or neurological defects	.
None	9	19	In conclusion we identified expanded CAG repeats in the SCA7 gene within members of a large Chinese family with spinocerebellar ataxia	.
None	12	18	Sjögren Larsson syndrome SLS is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by ichthyosis spastic di or tetraplegia and mental retardation due a defect of the fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase FALDH related to mutations in the ALDH3A2 gene	.
None	12	13	Sjögren Larsson syndrome SLS is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by ichthyosis spastic di or tetraplegia and mental retardation due a defect of the fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase FALDH related to mutations in the ALDH3A2 gene	.
None	28	20	CONCLUSIONS This report expands the ophthalmological phenotype of the late onset neurodegenerative form of CHS to include optic neuropathy with progressive vision loss even in the absence of ocular albinism and abnormal prominence of the interdigitation zone between cone outer segment tips and apical processes of retinal pigment epithelium cells on macular OCT	.
None	28	21	CONCLUSIONS This report expands the ophthalmological phenotype of the late onset neurodegenerative form of CHS to include optic neuropathy with progressive vision loss even in the absence of ocular albinism and abnormal prominence of the interdigitation zone between cone outer segment tips and apical processes of retinal pigment epithelium cells on macular OCT	.
None	22	11	The present case is that of an infant with acquired hydrocephalus psychomotor retardation and myoclonic seizures in whom the final diagnosis was nonketotic hyperglycinemia	.
None	13	16	The oculoauriculovertebral dysplasia is a rare congenital malformation that is characterized by a hemifacial microsomia with ocular abnormalities and coexisting disorders in the spinal column and other organs	.
None	20	12	Four children showed symptoms characteristic of Stickler syndrome including moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss moderate to high myopia with vitreoretinopathy and epiphyseal dysplasia	.
None	19	27	In gastrocnemius muscles MAPs increased in disorders such as Duchenne MD Fukuyama type congenital MD facioscapulohumeral MD myotonic dystrophy dermatomyositis Kugelberg Welander syndrome viral myelitis malignant hyperpyrexia autism and schizophrenia	.
None	7	17	We reported two Chinese families with partial trisomy 9p and other chromosome partial monosomy clinical features of mental retardation and mild facial and pinkie anomalies	.
None	0	18	Leber hereditary optic neuropathy LHON is caused by point mutations in mitochondrial DNA mtDNA and is characterized by bilateral painless sub acute visual loss that develops during the second decade of life	.
None	6	0	Frontotemporal dementia motor neuron disease and frontotemporal dementia motor neuron disease are characterised by overlapping patterns of TAR DNA binding protein TDP 43 pathology while the chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 C9orf72 repeat expansion is common across the disease spectrum	.
None	0	6	Frontotemporal dementia motor neuron disease and frontotemporal dementia motor neuron disease are characterised by overlapping patterns of TAR DNA binding protein TDP 43 pathology while the chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 C9orf72 repeat expansion is common across the disease spectrum	.
None	14	20	Much progress has been made in the past five years in the understanding of Leber congenital amaurosis LCA and allied early onset retinal dystrophies various forms of stationary sensory retinal blindness and genes that are involved in the development of the retina	.
None	14	27	Much progress has been made in the past five years in the understanding of Leber congenital amaurosis LCA and allied early onset retinal dystrophies various forms of stationary sensory retinal blindness and genes that are involved in the development of the retina	.
None	7	16	This confirmed the expanding phenotypic spectrum of MEB disease with varying degrees of hypotonia myopia and cognitive impairment	.
None	8	16	However in the common inherited cancer predisposition syndrome neurofibromatosis type 1 NF1 the prevalence of these cognitive deficits approaches 70	.
None	8	2	In addition gait disturbance low back pain and alopecia are characteristic features	.
None	7	1	However severe mental impairment was atypical of Charcot Marie Tooth disease type 1A	.
None	6	23	Furthermore we evaluated the similarities of SMS adult food related behaviors to those with intellectual disability and found that SMS adults had more severe behavioral problems	.
None	6	14	Furthermore we evaluated the similarities of SMS adult food related behaviors to those with intellectual disability and found that SMS adults had more severe behavioral problems	.
None	11	17	We report on two patients presenting with mandibulofacial dysostosis characteristic of Treacher Collins syndrome but associated with unexpected intellectual disability due to a large deletion encompassing several genes including the TCOF1 gene	.
None	12	25	Advances in clinical imaging and molecular characterisation have increased the accuracy of frontotemporal dementia diagnosis thus allowing for the accurate differentiation of these syndromes from psychiatric disorders	.
None	6	14	We report a female child with tetrasomy of the 15q11 q13 chromosomal region and autistic disorder associated with mental retardation developmental problems and behavioral disorders	.
None	17	20	It has been suggested that microarray analysis should be included in the diagnostic evaluation of patients with infantile spasms and developmental delay when an evaluation for structural brain lesions and metabolic disorders reveal no abnormal findings	.
None	37	24	Based on the present data we propose that C4Orf48 probably encodes a novel neuropeptide which if hemizygously deleted may be involved in the observed intellectual and fine motor disabilities and thus in the overall neurological aspects of Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome	.
None	22	12	Our data enhance the importance of establish a differential diagnosis with other retinal dystrophies supporting the idea of an underestimated prevalence of choroideremia	.
None	2	26	The term West syndrome WS refers to a form a subset of ISs characterised by the combination of clustered spasms and hypsarrhythmia on an EEG and delayed brain development or regression currently it is no longer required that delayed development occur before the onset of spasms	.
None	2	12	Moreover clinical FTD manifestations may be associated with TDP 43 proteolysis since impaired behaviors in TBI rats were reminiscent of those in humans with FTD	.
None	25	22	It is characterized by distinct craniofacial abnormalities including abnormal location of the ears aplastic cervical skin lesions malformed auricles conductive hearing loss ocular abnormalities and cleft lip and palate	.
None	25	19	It is characterized by distinct craniofacial abnormalities including abnormal location of the ears aplastic cervical skin lesions malformed auricles conductive hearing loss ocular abnormalities and cleft lip and palate	.
None	1	12	Childhood narcolepsy with cataplexy represents a risk factor for subtle and heterogeneous cognitive impairments potentially resulting in academic failure despite the normal IQ	.
None	26	10	In order to identify novel genes involved in mental retardation intellectual disability we focused on a microdeletion reported in a patient with a mild form of Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome	.
None	26	8	In order to identify novel genes involved in mental retardation intellectual disability we focused on a microdeletion reported in a patient with a mild form of Wolf Hirschhorn syndrome	.
None	22	13	In a 14 year old girl presenting with hematuria proteinuria mental retardation MR sensorineural hearing loss dysmorphisms and epilepsy we detected a microdeletion in chromosome Xq22 3 q23	.
None	22	10	In a 14 year old girl presenting with hematuria proteinuria mental retardation MR sensorineural hearing loss dysmorphisms and epilepsy we detected a microdeletion in chromosome Xq22 3 q23	.
None	17	2	Since cerebellar ataxia is a relatively common but unspecific neurological symptom in toddlers it is recommended that MLD be considered as part of the differential diagnosis even if the initial neuroimaging studies are normal and ataxia is the only clinical symptom of the disease	.
None	21	23	INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES Neurofibromatosis type 2 NF2 is an infrequent autosomal dominant disease characterised by the appearance of viii nerve schwannomas meningiomas and ocular abnormalities	.
None	17	27	Each patient had multiple and variable anomalies such as a congenital heart defect including ventricular septal defect atrial septal defect and patent duct arteriosus ventriculomegaly cryptorchism or hearing loss	.
None	14	27	Each patient had multiple and variable anomalies such as a congenital heart defect including ventricular septal defect atrial septal defect and patent duct arteriosus ventriculomegaly cryptorchism or hearing loss	.
None	21	24	That the deletion encompassed FGD1 exons 2 8 explains the Aarskog features while the deletion of PHF8 most likely explains the cleft palate and mild intellectual disability	.
None	5	21	Clinicians should be cognizant of Stickler syndrome so that they can detect the disease in patients and their family members prevent functional impairments organize a multidisciplinary management strategy and arrange for genetic counseling	.
None	3	20	Three patients with Dent 2 disease had mild peripheral cataract and 9 patients were noted to have some degree of mental retardation	.
None	17	14	We report a ten month old boy with Canavan disease who presented with global developmental delay seizures abnormal eye movements and microcephaly	.
None	17	13	We report a ten month old boy with Canavan disease who presented with global developmental delay seizures abnormal eye movements and microcephaly	.
None	19	25	Costello syndrome was delineated based on its distinctive phenotype including severe failure to thrive with macrocephaly characteristic facial features hypertrophic cardiomyopathy papillomata malignant tumors and cognitive impairment	.
None	9	11	Although the literature offers conflicting evidence for association of NF1 and autism there has been no systematic evaluation of autism traits in the RASopathies as a class to support a role for germline Ras MAPK activation in ASDs	.
None	3	7	All patients had osteopetrosis renal tubular acidosis developmental delay short stature and craniofacial disproportion with large cranial vault and broad forehead	.
None	10	18	A case of homocystinuria with lenticular subluxation was misdiagnosed as Marfan syndrome since the patient had no apparent mental impairment and had had a negative neonatal screen for homocystinuria	.
None	9	17	Herein we report a 13 year old male with common variable immunodeficiency CVID who was diagnosed with autism at the age of 3 years old	.
None	30	26	Waardenburg Shah syndrome Waardenburg syndrome type IV WS4 is an auditory pigmentary disorder that combines clinical features of pigmentary abnormalities of the skin hair and irides sensorineural hearing loss and Hirschsprung disease HSCR	.
None	24	7	Features such as bodyweight and height stagnation language delay abnormal nutritional pathways tube feeding and renal failure were more prominent in the 20 deceased CS type 1 patients than in the 21 surviving CS type 1 patients	.
None	14	21	Furthermore such disruption in white matter organization appears to be a feature specific to Aicardi syndrome and not shared by other neurodevelopmental disorders with similar anatomic manifestations	.
None	13	1	BACKGROUND Cognitive impairment has been reported in a significant proportion of patients with congenitl muscular dystrophies CMD generally associated with brain changes	.
None	31	24	BACKGROUND The aim of the study was to determine whether electrocardiogram ECG screening could reduce the risk of sudden cardiac death in patients with hearing loss through the early diagnosis of Jervell and Lange Nielsen syndrome and the introduction of the therapy	.
None	15	8	Coarse progeroid facial features with a bulbous nose feeding difficulties in infancy cardiac involvement with cardiomyopathy or conduction defect and in our case impaired glucose tolerance also presented	.
None	11	8	ALMS an autosomal recessive syndrome causes juvenile blindness sensorineural hearing loss cardiomyopathy endocrinological disorders and metabolic dysfunction	.
None	11	6	ALMS an autosomal recessive syndrome causes juvenile blindness sensorineural hearing loss cardiomyopathy endocrinological disorders and metabolic dysfunction	.
None	8	12	Two of whom became symptomatic with abnormal gait alopecia skin rashes and developmental delay	.
None	5	0	Progressive sensorineural hearing loss and amyloidosis are two late complications	.
None	5	11	Both the patients had generalized ichthyosis and the older one had spastic paraplegia and mental retardation and the fundus examination revealed foveal and parafoveal glistening dots	.
None	5	14	Both the patients had generalized ichthyosis and the older one had spastic paraplegia and mental retardation and the fundus examination revealed foveal and parafoveal glistening dots	.
None	7	4	OBJECTIVE To describe the hearing loss in facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy FSHD and examine the relationship to genotype	.
None	18	24	We used the Behavior Problems Inventory 01 to categorize the frequency and severity of behavioral abnormalities in a SMS cohort relative to individuals with intellectual disability of heterogeneous etiology	.
None	7	20	We present a 3year old child with BOR syndrome who came to us with bilateral low set malformed ears & profound cochlear hearing loss along with bilateral branchial fistulae & unilateral renal agenesis	.
None	10	17	Detection by newborn screening NBS and treatment of babies with congenital hypothyroidism CH has largely eliminated the intellectual disability caused by this disorder	.
None	5	20	We conclude that children with CHARGE association have a propensity for airway instability and that cerebral hypoxia contributed to the developmental delay in some of our patients	.
None	5	7	The main clinical features are retinitis pigmentosa cerebellar ataxia and chronic polyneuropathy	.
None	3	0	Sensorineural deafness and amyloidosis are the two major complications of MWS and determine poor prognosis of the disease	.
None	6	16	We have observed that patients with 8q12 duplication share a common recognizable phenotype characterized by DRS developmental delay and facial features	.
None	4	18	In rare recessively inherited CARASIL the clinical picture and white matter changes are similar as in CADASIL but cognitive decline begins earlier	.
None	7	38	The first published descriptions of behavior in CS children underlined the presence of irritability and shyness at younger ages with sociable personality and good empathic skills after 4 5 years of age however some recent studies have reported autistic traits	.
None	4	13	In addition siblings with Alström s syndrome characterized by pigmentary retinal degeneration causing blindness in early childhood progressive sensorineural hearing loss and progressive renal failure are reported	.
None	18	16	PURPOSE To report a late onset cone rod dystrophy that revealed a familial neurogenic muscle weakness ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa syndrome as a consequence of the T8993G mitochondrial mutation	.
None	6	18	Treatment of a Drosophila model of Fragile X syndrome with metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR antagonists or lithium rescues social and cognitive impairments	.
None	17	12	Cerebral malformations ventricular hypertrophy increased subarachnoid space morphological alterations of corpus callosum cortical atrophy delays in myelinisation periventricular leukomalacia and periventricular heterotopia	.
None	23	15	Of the three cases of CRS that occurred in 2012 conditions included cardiac defects cataracts hearing impairment and pericardial effusion in one infant patent ductus arteriosus cardiomegaly thrombocytopenia and pneumonitis in a second infant and cataracts thrombocytopenia and cardiac defects in a third infant	.
None	15	6	His mother had a short stature mental retardation and similar although minor manifestations of the Coffin Lowry syndrome in her face hands and fingers	.
None	8	22	Mutations in carbonic anhydrase II gene lead to osteopetrosis RTA pRTA distal RTA or combined proximal and distal RTA cerebral calcification and mental retardation	.
None	10	22	Mutations in carbonic anhydrase II gene lead to osteopetrosis RTA pRTA distal RTA or combined proximal and distal RTA cerebral calcification and mental retardation	.
None	20	29	In contrast to this picture the present case report describes the cognitive and behavioural profile of a young female with cri du chat syndrome who displays no evidence of severe learning disability	.
None	3	10	Usually patients with Treacher Collins syndrome do not present with intellectual disability	.
None	14	8	Expected CdCs features that are not present are growth delay microcephaly round facies micrognathia epicanthal folds and the signature high pitched cry	.
None	44	6	A 9 year old boy with learning disability and intermittent choreoathetosis during febrile illnesses had elevated plasma glycine level and CSF plasma glycine ratio 0 044 and a novel homozygous missense mutation c 605C>T p Ala202Val in the GLDC gene confirming the diagnosis of NKH	.
None	22	0	Cerebellar and retinal degeneration and possible stunted dendritogenesis may be due to plasmalogen deficiency which is the most severe biochemical abnormality in RCDP	.
None	14	17	West syndrome WS an age dependent epileptic encephalopathy is identified as a triad of infantile spasms IS psychomotor retardation and a specific EEG pattern known as hypsarrhythmia	.
None	25	17	This aberrant ERK1 2 signaling can influence various neuronal functions and thus play a significant role in cognitive dysfunction in mrsk2_KO mice and in the Coffin Lowry syndrome	.
None	8	15	We advocate brain imaging studies of patients with LEOPARD syndrome and neurologic abnormalities such as developmental delay or epilepsy	.
None	17	20	Virtual reality is a technology that holds great promise for the evaluation and rehabilitation of patients with bvFTD and other non Alzheimer dementias and preliminary evidence suggests that this technology is feasible in patients with bvFTD	.
None	1	7	WAGR Wilms tumour Aniridia Genitourinary anomalies and mental Retardation syndrome is caused by 11p13 deletions of variable size near the BDNF locus and can serve as a model for studying human BDNF haploinsufficiency +	.
None	5	9	The daughter and mother with infantile spasms and the autistic son had the duplication	.
None	8	11	A 10 year old boy presented with congenital biliary atresia and progressive gait abnormality	.
None	22	3	To our knowledge sensorineural hearing loss is described in the literature but has not been described as a typical phenotypic symptom of tetrasomy 18p	.
None	27	10	While mouse models have elucidated molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying learning deficits associated with this mutation little is known about functional brain architecture in human subjects with NF1	.
None	22	18	However the patient still suffered many complications after the severe metabolic insult with hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy cerebral atrophy global developmental delay and cortical visual impairment	.
None	8	10	We present an 8 year old girl with cleidocranial dysplasia psychomotor developmental delay poor wound healing and a 6p21 2p12 3 deletion detected by aCGH	.
None	8	13	Oxidative stress is involved in the pathogenesis of multiple system atrophy MSA and cognitive impairment	.
None	26	4	Two affected females manifest moderate mental retardation and psychotic symptoms such as delusion of persecution auditory hallucination self talking and self laughing which are rare in cri du chat syndrome	.
None	14	6	Our findings may help to explain locomotor and cognitive deficits seen in mice with MPS I	.
None	9	5	SCA1 may rarely present with pure spastic paraplegia resembling hereditary spastic paraplegia before the appearance of cerebellar signs	.
None	20	24	Why their gait improved remain unclear but a defect in selenium metabolism may play a role in the development of congenital muscular dystrophy and mental retardation	.
None	0	33	Hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type VI was first reported in 1879 by Vizioli who described a kinship in which a father and two sons presented with peroneal muscular atrophy in association with optic atrophy	.
